Are you serious? Here, of all places we've been?  I assume you've heard about Prince Sebastian, Varric.  I wasn't trying to...  I thought you might be concerned. It is your home.  Have you heard from any of your Kirkwall associates Varric?  You're no longer my prisoner, much as you like to act like it.  I am not without sympathy, especially given recent events.  (sigh  How kind of you.  Leliana recruited Josephine. They're... friends.  I recruited Commander Cullen.  He has made no complaints about my manners.  Varric I'm sorry. About earlier. With the table.  I am sorry.  Perhaps not that sorry.  Varric, does Hawke ever autograph books?  Yes... but it could also have Hawke's signature on it.  Hawke's taller than I imagined.  Not the first thing.  It was research! I thought I might learn more about the Champion.  I already read that one. Twice.  I have enough mysteries and investigations of my own.  Then you killed my favorite character in Chapter 3, so I threw the book across the room.  Varric, how could you let the Knight-Captain be framed for murder?  But she didn't deserve it! You'd already put her through more than enough!  That makes no sense!  What made you write about Hawke? All your other books are complete fiction.  Yet your book is still full of lies.  Why is the second "Hard in Hightown" so completely different from the first?  By "editor", do you mean your crossbow?  Who does?  Is she alright? Is that how the book ends?  Cole, what happens to her?  (sigh Not all my feelings involve stabbing.  I am somewhat surprised you didn't follow Hawke to Weisshaupt, Varric.  What about Anders? Will he...  What about Fenris? Will he...  What about Isabela? Will she...  And Hawke's brother. He's still alive, isn't he?  And Hawke's sister. She's still alive, isn't she?  You would find a way.  About Hawke...  But what about Fenris. Does he...  You speak as though I could forbid it. I did not know your friend or see her Eluvian. If you have an issue speak with Lady Morrigan.  Varric, you are aware that I'm a candidate for the Sunburst Throne?  Not a single snide remark?  I don't look forward to your needling. But its absence is telling.  Am I to understand your Bianca is married?  Forget I mentioned anything. Are you serious? Here, of all places we've been?  I assume you've heard about Prince Sebastian, Varric.  I wasn't trying to...  I thought you might be concerned. It is your home.  Have you heard from any of your Kirkwall associates Varric?  You're no longer my prisoner, much as you like to act like it.  I am not without sympathy, especially given recent events.  (sigh  How kind of you.  Leliana recruited Josephine. They're... friends.  I recruited Commander Cullen.  He has made no complaints about my manners.  Varric I'm sorry. About earlier. With the table.  I am sorry.  Perhaps not that sorry.  Varric, does Hawke ever autograph books?  Yes... but it could also have Hawke's signature on it.  Hawke's taller than I imagined.  Not the first thing.  It was research! I thought I might learn more about the Champion.  I already read that one. Twice.  I have enough mysteries and investigations of my own.  Then you killed my favorite character in Chapter 3, so I threw the book across the room.  Varric, how could you let the Knight-Captain be framed for murder?  But she didn't deserve it! You'd already put her through more than enough!  That makes no sense!  What made you write about Hawke? All your other books are complete fiction.  Yet your book is still full of lies.  Why is the second "Hard in Hightown" so completely different from the first?  By "editor", do you mean your crossbow?  Who does?  Is she alright? Is that how the book ends?  Cole, what happens to her?  (sigh Not all my feelings involve stabbing.  I am somewhat surprised you didn't follow Hawke to Weisshaupt, Varric.  What about Anders? Will he...  What about Fenris? Will he...  What about Isabela? Will she...  And Hawke's brother. He's still alive, isn't he?  And Hawke's sister. She's still alive, isn't she?  You would find a way.  About Hawke...  But what about Fenris. Does he...  You speak as though I could forbid it. I did not know your friend or see her Eluvian. If you have an issue speak with Lady Morrigan.  Varric, you are aware that I'm a candidate for the Sunburst Throne?  Not a single snide remark?  I don't look forward to your needling. But its absence is telling.  Am I to understand your Bianca is married?  Forget I mentioned anything. It was a simple question, Varric.  I would rather you didn't.  None.  This... is not a discussion I want to have here.  I have no "conquests".  No.  Very well, Varric. If you wish to know about men I have known, I will tell you.  You are right. I pried first, and fair is fair. Years ago, I knew a young mage named Regalyan. He was dashing, unlike any men I met. He died at the Conclave.  What we had was fleeting. And years had passed. Still, it saddens me to think he's gone.  I know. I was not trying to make you speak of Bianca. If I was, you would know. I would yell, books would be stabbed.  I still don't understand how drakes take that hand.  Isn't that a children's game?  Leliana's rank equals my own insofar as our rank means anything outside the Chantry.  I declared the Inquisition but I don't know that I'm best suited to command it. Perhaps you're interested in the position since you seem so interested?  There's almost no mention of your part in the Tale of the Champion, Varric.  You don't want to incriminate yourself, you mean. 