     Sebastian: I Hawke! We were just talking about you.
    Hawke: Carry on. I love to eavesdrop.
    Varric: "Hawke said sarcastically." 

(If the aggressive option was chosen)

    Varric: "Hawke said aggressively." 

(If the diplomatic option was chosen)

    Hawke: "Saying good things, I hope?"
    Varric: "Hawke asked diplomatically." 

    Hawke: You know I hate it when you do that.
    Varric: "Hawke muttered in an angry aside to the dwarf..." 



Act 3

(Inside the Hawke Estate, must have Dog)

    Varric: You know, you play diamondback better than my cousin Vidar. (To Dog)
    Varric: You wag your tail whenever you have a good hand, though. Might want to watch that.
    Dog: (Barks)
    Hawke: Is it brilliant or horrible that you play diamondback with my dog? (humorous) / It's a short tail. I'm sure nobody notices. (diplomatic) / He doesn't take well to having his flaws pointed out. (aggressive)
    Varric: All I'm saying is, he'd be up more than two sovereigns if he watched his tells.
    Varric: My Uncle Emmet has a whole pack of rat terriers who play every week.
    Varric: They're a cutthroat bunch. You've got a long way to go to be their quality.
    Dog: (Growls)
    Varric: Now don't take it badyou're still better than Anders.
    Dog: (Happy bark!)
    Varric: Coming to the Hanged Man later?
    Dog: (Barks) 

Varric and Anders Edit

Act 1

    Anders: What?
    Varric: Just wondering if the feathered pauldrons are an essential part of the moody rebel mage persona.
    Anders: What are you talking about?
    Varric: I'm working on an epic poem about a hopelessly romantic apostate waging an epic struggle against forces he can't possibly defeat.
    Anders: What do you mean, "can't possibly defeat?"
    Varric: Well, it's not a good story unless the hero dies. 



    Anders: I've always wondered, why is every surface dwarf a merchant or a smith?
    Varric: You left out criminals and hired muscle.
    Anders: They don't count.
    Varric: We dwarves are drawn to shiny objects. Sort of like Magpies, but with business sense.
    Anders: You're kidding.
    Varric: Of course I am. We come to the surface with the skills our ancestors had, Blondie.
    Varric: You think there's a tradition of dwarf woodcutters in Orzammar? Bee keepers? Sailors?
    Anders: Well, there could be mushroom growers and nug wranglers.
    Varric: Orzammar will never let those people go topside. Too vital. Also, embarrassing. 



    Varric: So a human, an elf, and a dwarf walk into a bar...
    Anders: The human says, "You're lucky you're so short. That hurt like mad!"
    Varric: You could have just stopped me, Blondie.
    Anders: Why waste a perfectly good set up? 



Act 2

    Anders: Boiling in oil.
    Varric: Too prosaic. Trapped in a cave with hungry bears, right at the spring thaw.
    Anders: That lets him off too easy. Dipped in molten gold and left as a statue in the Viscount's Keep.
    Varric: Ooh. That's poetic!
    Hawke: What are you two talking about?
    Varric: What to do to Bartrand when I find him.
    Anders: Any suggestions? 



    Varric: Blondie, I don't mean to sound critical, but have you considered a new line of work?
    Anders: Such as?
    Varric: Pretty much anything? I don't think "renegade mage" has a bright future. Or any retirement plan. 



    Varric: If you've got something to say, just spit it out.
    Anders: Are you sure you want to encourage me? I might be about to confess my undying love.
    Varric: I get that a lot. So what's on your mind?
    Anders: I just realized it's been a while since any of the gangs in the Undercity came to my door.
    Varric: They're busy people. Places to go, throats to cut. Maybe you've slipped their minds.
    Anders: Right. The apostate running the free clinic in the sewers. Easy to forget. You didn't have anything to do with this?
    Varric: You must have me confused with someone else! I'm just a businessman and a storyteller. 



(If you complete Dissent)

    Varric: Oh, cheer up, Blondie. You're making me cry just looking at you.
    Anders: Don't.
    Varric: You made a mistake. It happens.
    Anders: I almost killed a girl.
    Varric: You've killed two hundred and fifty four by my last count. Plus about five hundred men, a few dozen giant spiders, and at least two demons.
    Anders: It's not the same.
    Varric: Why? Because this one you feel bad about? Maybe that's the problem. 



Act 3

    Varric: So, three templars walk into a tavern.
    Anders: Not right now, Varric.
    Varric: You feeling all right, Blondie? You're always in the mood for templar jokes. 



    Varric: So, the knight commander... Boiling in oil? That one never gets old.
    Anders: This is past time for joking.
    Varric: I'm helping you indulge in elaborate revenge fantasies. I think it's good for you.
    Anders: Meredith will die. Do not doubt that.
    Varric: Go away, Justice. Can Anders come out and play?
    Anders: [Justice voice] Stop.
    Varric: You are no fun anymore. 



    Varric: You've been glowering for days. Your face is going to get stuck that way.
    Anders: My face is the least of my concerns right now.
    Varric: That's because you don't have to look at it.
    Varric: If you could see it from this angle, Blondie, it'd be at least a close second on your priority list. 



(If Hawke romances Anders)

    Anders: You're giving me that look again. What are you writing this time?
    Varric: So, you and Hawke... I need some details. Did you go down on one knee? Did he/she jump you? Did you swear eternal vows of love, or is this just a physical thing?
    Anders: I don't see how that's any of your business.
    Varric: Fine, but if you don't tell me, I'm just going to have to make it up. 

Varric and Aveline Edit

Act 1

    Aveline: Varric, do you do anything?
    Varric: Am I the next stop in your career evaluations? Joy of joys.
    Aveline: You watch and you talk. Is that it?
    Varric: You are dismissing hallmarks of both the utterly ineffectual and the incredibly dangerous.
    Aveline: I don't know what you mean.
    Varric: It means coins flow when I talk and when I shut up. Like if you got paid to guard or unguard.
    Aveline: That makes no sense.
    Varric: Good. 



    Aveline: Maybe I should put you to use Varric. Have you pen some warnings for the lawless.
    Varric: Who's that for? Are most criminals big readers? Seems like pacifying the nobles.
    Aveline: Pictures then. It was just a suggestion.
    Varric: Well how about a giant sign that just says "Don't." You could hit people with it.
    Aveline: Thank you, I get the point. 



    Varric: A Fereldan in the guard. What will they think of next?
    Aveline: You have a problem with that?
    Varric: Me? My family's not native either. I'm just surprised. Lots of old prejudice in the guard.
    Aveline: I'll give them plenty of reason to change their minds.
    Varric: You know, it's possible they're just scared shitless of you. That's my theory, anyway. 



    Varric: So what do you do, Aveline?
    Aveline: You know I'm a guard, why are you asking?
    Varric: I mean in your off duty hours. For fun. You've heard of it, I hope?
    Aveline: These are my off duty hours.
    Varric: And the trend of you scaring the piss out of me continues. 



Act 2

    Aveline: Blondie, Sunshine, Daisy, Rivaini... What am I?
    Varric: Beg your pardon?
    Aveline: You don't call anyone by name except for me. Where's my nickname?
    Varric: That's not true. There's Hawke. And Bianca.
    Aveline: "Hawke" is a family name and Bianca is a crossbow. Don't change the subject.
    Varric: Haven't thought of a good one yet. What do you think of "Red?"
    Aveline: Too common.
    Varric: Well, when you think of one, let me know. 



    Aveline: You, Varric, have a very large mouth.
    Varric: And here I've always looked up to you. What is it now?
    Aveline: There were fistfights in the barracks over who is the model for your guard serial.
    Varric: Hard in Hightown. Riveting stuff. Everyone loves a dirty guard on the edge.
    Aveline: Varric.
    Varric: Fine. I'll start his big finish. Three chapters until Donnen Brennicovick retires and opens a tavern on the coast.
    Varric: I sure hope he makes it. He's getting too old for this shit. 



    Aveline: You are very close to losing your printing blocks, Varric.
    Varric: Once more I am falsely accused of whatever it is that I am accused of. Falsely.
    Aveline: Someone swapped the text of my recruitment poster with some filth from the Blooming Rose.
    Varric: That does sound pretty good.
    Aveline: Sure, fill barracks with whores. But you've also filled the Rose with guards.
    Varric: It is true what they say. The best comedy comes from tragedy. 



    Aveline: You know the Tethras family businesses are registered in your cousin Elmand's name?
    Varric: You don't say?
    Aveline: But I can't find any record of you having a cousin Elmand.
    Varric: I'll introduce you some time. He's a little on the shy side.
    Aveline: Varric. He's imaginary.
    Varric: Which makes him a much better head of the household than I am. He never misses the Merchants Guild meetings, for one. 



Act 3

    Aveline: You're too quiet, Varric.
    Varric: I'm thinking of switching to romances. Nothing? Not even a foreboding frown? 

(Only if The Long Road has been completed)

    Aveline: I am content. Write what you will.
    Varric: Well that certainly takes the fun out of it. Contentment in the barracks? Who'll pay to hear that shit?
    Aveline: Then I should have thought of it years ago. 

(Otherwise)

    Aveline: Do what you will. I don't care.
    Varric: That is... not a comforting thought.
    Aveline: It is what it is. I'm used to it.
    Varric: I think we've both lost some inspiration. 



    Aveline: Why are you still here, Varric?
    Varric: Starkhaven's too pretentious for me and Cumberland's too boring.
    Aveline: You always say you hate commitment, but here you are, six years later, still at Hawke's side.
    Varric: Aveline, I thought you'd have noticed by now: I lie a lot. 



    Aveline: Strange, I always thought I'd wind up arresting you some day.
    Varric: If I ever decide to get caught, Aveline, you'll be the guard I let catch me.
    Aveline: "Let catch you?"
    Varric: "Decide to get caught" didn't trip you up though. Good to know! 



    Aveline: How are you at finales, Varric?
    Varric: I'm expecting some practical experience fairly soon.
    Aveline: Make it a good one, will you?
    Varric: For you, madam, endless sunsets and roses.
    Aveline: Varric.
    Varric: And the swift hand of the law sweeping all aside. I thought it went unsaid. 

Varric and Bethany Edit

    Bethany: You don't seem to like your brother very much.
    Varric: And here I thought it took blood magic to read minds.
    Bethany: I had a twin brother, Carver. He used to nail my braid to the bed while I was sleeping.
    Bethany: I never thought I'd miss him this much.
    Varric: Sorry about your brother.
    Varric: Hey, you want mine? I've got a spare... 



    Bethany: Do you ever wish you lived in Orzammar?
    Varric: Great Ancestors, no! You know what Orzammar is?
    Varric: It's cramped tunnels, filled with nug shit and body odor.
    Varric: And every person there thinks he's better than you because his great great great grandfather made a water clock or something.
    Bethany: But they're your people. Don't you even wonder what it would be like?
    Varric: I have a good imagination. Why would I waste it on that? 



    Bethany: Are you really not afraid of apostates? Not even a little?
    Varric: Sunshine, I'm a dwarf. In case you missed that detail.
    Bethany: Dwarves aren't completely immune to magic, you know.
    Varric: No, no, no! I meant there are at least thirty people in this town who'd murder my family over trade deals.
    Varric: Who has time to worry about apostates with a Merchant's Guild breathing down your neck?
    Bethany: In that case... I see. 



    Bethany: Your family used to be noble, right?
    Varric: By some definition of the term.
    Bethany: Do you ever wonder what your life would have been like, if you were still nobles?
    Varric: Sunshine, nobility is just an expensive lifestyle. I've already got one of those.
    Bethany: Nobles have power, too. And responsibilities.
    Varric: Estates, servants, investments, mercenaries, assassins? We've still got all those things.
    Varric: It's sunnier here, and nobody calls me my lord. I think I can live with that. 



(Only if Birthright has been completed)

    Varric: So... Milady Sunshine, what's your first act of noblewoman going to be?
    Bethany: A noblewoman with no fortune and no title? Looking for work, probably.
    Varric: Practicality is for peasants, my lady. You need to do something frivolous to celebrate your birthright.
    Bethany: Such as...?
    Varric: Come up to the Hightown Market and complain bitterly that there's no Orlesian silk that matches your eyes.
    Bethany: But what if something does match my eyes? What will I do, then?
    Varric: Insist that they're blatantly copying you, and demand royalties. A good noble always has a complaint ready, Sunshine. 

Varric and Carver Edit

    Varric: You know, Junior, it's eerie how much of a resemblance there is between you two.
    Carver:
        (If Hawke is male) We're brothers. What's eerie about that?
        (If Hawke is female) She's my sister. Of course there's a resemblance. 
    Varric: Ooh, you thought I meant Hawke. I was talking about Gamlen.
    Carver: Maker, I hate you dwarf. 



    Carver: Don't look at me.
    Varric: What's your issue now, little Hawke?
    Carver: Don't call me...just don't alright? You're just looking for fodder for your stories.
    Varric: You think you're that interesting?
    Carver: I have enough trouble being overshadowed as it is. I don't need to get caught under an imaginary me, too.
    Varric: Don't you worry. I'm not in the business of lullabies or children's stories. 



    Carver: I'm surprised these tunnels don't simply collapse.
    Varric: Dwarves made them.
    Carver: Then I'm surprised they're not smaller. 



    Varric: You know, Junior, you're looking at this all wrong.
    Carver: Whatever it is you're about to say, I'm not interested.
    Varric: I'm a professional younger brother. Trust me, the center of attention's the worst place to be.
    Varric: When things go wrong, and they always do, that's where all the fingers point. Look at any kingdom in Thedas.
    Varric: You've got people who warm thrones, and people nobody sees who do the real work.
    Carver:
        (If Hawke is male) So my brother is a king now? Just what he needed.
        (If Hawke is female) And my sister is a queen in this scenario. Perfect. 
    Varric: Point. Missing it. Ah well. 



    Carver: Varric.
    Varric: Carver.
    Carver: Still think you're helping while burying us in debt to your brother?
    Varric: Still riding side saddle while bitching at your betters?
    Carver: Drinks later?
    Varric: Never miss'em. 

Varric and Fenris Edit

Act 1

    Fenris: I thought all dwarves had beards. Where's yours?
    Varric: I misplaced it, along with my sense of dwarven pride and my gold plated noble caste pin.
    Fenris: I thought maybe it fell onto your chest.
    Varric: Oh ho! The broody elf tells a joke!
    Fenris: I don't brood.
    Varric: Friend, if your brooding were any more impressive, women would swoon as you passed. They'd have broody babies in your honor.
    Fenris: You're a very odd dwarf.
    Varric: And you thought I was joking about the pin. 



    Varric: So, elf. That thing you do with your hand...
    Fenris: I can already tell this isn't going anywhere pleasant.
    Varric: I bet that makes pickpocketing easier.
    Fenris: I'll try it some time and find out. 



    Varric: Is brooding a sport in Tevinter? Do they hold competitions? Hand out trophies for the best scowls?
    Fenris: I'm not "brooding."
    Varric: Moping, then. You seem like you're a champion at it.
    Fenris: I'm perfectly content at the moment.
    Varric: Oh, so that's you smiling? Glad you clarified that. I'd never have known. 



Act 2

    Varric: You know, if you need advice on how to lay low I can give you some.
    Fenris: Being short would make for an excellent start, I suspect.
    Varric: Keep that up, serah, and you can keep on hiding like a rank amateur.
    Fenris: What would you suggest, Varric? Cower in the shadows like a rat?
    Varric: You could try wearing something that didn't scream: "I hate you all, I was a slave!"
    Fenris: The markings would still show.
    Varric: Really? Through anything? That's... kind of cool. 



    Varric: You really ought to take that offer, elf. It would keep the Coterie off your back pretty much permanently.
    Fenris: I don't need employment.
    Varric: But it wouldn't kill you to make some friends in this city. Three years, and you're practically a ghost.
    Fenris: I prefer it that way.
    Varric: Healthy attitude there. Forget I said anything. 



    Varric: So what do you do in that gigantic house all day?
    Fenris: Dance, of course.
    Varric: Really?
    Fenris: I run from room to room, choreographing routines.
    Varric: You're actually joking. Alert the Chantry! They need to put this on the calendar!
    Fenris: And you thought I was always serious. 



(If you complete Family Matter)

    Fenris: So you found your brother.
    Varric: I did! Wasn't expecting that.
    Fenris: I assume there was a time when you and he were friends?
    Varric: With Bartrand? No, just brothers. Occasionally he wasn't insufferable.
    Fenris: And yet you remained at his side.
    Varric: Too bad he didn't do the same. 



(In front of The Hanged Man)

    Fenris: I still don't get the name. Did they hang someone here? 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: It means being drunk. 

(If Anders is in the party)

    Anders: Someone is "hung" if they are drunk, I believe. 

    Varric: Actually they used to hang men there. By their feet.
    Fenris: Well, good thing they were drunk then. 



Act 3

    Fenris: So who is "Bianca"?
    Varric: My crossbow. Say hello, Bianca.
    Fenris: But why Bianca? You must have named her after someone.
    Varric: Nope. Mirabelle was taken.
    Fenris: The way you fondle your weapon is disturbing.
    Varric: Hey! I'm a perfect gentleman. In public. 



    Fenris: I notice you hardly ever comment on mages and templars and such.
    Varric: It's a lot of humans in skirts. I get them mixed up.
    Fenris: I highly doubt that. The subject comes up all the time.
    Varric: Tell me about it.
    Fenris: And no opinion? One way or the other?
    Varric: Opinions are like testicles. You kick them hard enough, doesn't matter how many you got.
    Fenris: That's... something. 



    Varric: You know you still owe me five sovereigns, elf.
    Fenris: I'm good for it. 

(If Isabela did not leave the party)

    Varric: So, you think you can win the coin from Isabela? Good luck with that. 

(Otherwise)

    Varric: Meaning you'll borrow it from Hawke, probably. 

    Varric: Coming to the Hanged Man for Wicked Grace later?
    Fenris: Never miss it. 



(If Hawke romanced Fenris)

    Varric: So...you and Hawke?
    Fenris: What about us? 

(If Hawke is female)

    Varric: I want to make sure I get all the details right when I tell this story. Did you sweep her off her feet or was it the other way around? 

(If Hawke is male)

    Varric: I want to make sure I get all the details right when I tell this story. Did he sweep you off your feet? I'm assuming he did the sweeping. He's taller than you. Awkward, otherwise. 

    Fenris: I'm not telling you anything but this: There was no actual sweeping involved.
    Varric: Every little bit helps, elf. 

Varric and Isabela Edit

Act 1

    Varric: I shit you not, Rivaini, it was this big.
    Isabela: There's no way. Impossible! I've had hundreds of those in my hands, and they're never that size.
    Varric: Would I lie about something so critical? 

(Next line is dependent on third party member)

    Anders: I can't stand it anymorewhat are you two talking about?
    Aveline: I'm afraid to ask, but... what are you two going on about?
    Carver: What is wrong with you two? Can't you ever have a conversation that isn't dirty?
    Hawke: What are you two talking about? 

    Varric: We're discussing knives, of course. Well, daggers, technically. I never remember the difference.
    Varric: Why? What did you think we were talking about? 



    Varric: Rivaini, stop looking at my chest. My eyes are up here.
    Isabela: But the chest hair...
    Varric: Do you know how much I suffer under your gaze? I am a person, not an object!
    Isabela: Uh, Varric?
    Varric: (Laughs) Just shitting you. 



    Varric: You know, Rivaini, you promised me you'd tell me how your ship wrecked.
    Isabela: I was drunk. I thought the reefs around the Wounded Coast were made of candy.
    Varric: Oh, come on.
    Isabela: And a demon told me to do it. It bet me sixty sovereigns and a bottle of port.
    Isabela: You're not the only one here who can bullshit, you know. 



    Varric: I'll let you run your fingers through it, if you want.
    Isabela: Your chest hair? My fingers? Oh, Varric, stop! You're making me quiver.
    Varric: You know you want to.
    Isabela: Oh, I do... I can't resist you. No woman can.
    Varric: I know. It's a terrible burden. 



Act 2

    Varric: Were you listening to that guy in the Hanged Man last night?
    Isabela: "Your eyes are like bumblebees, flying into the window of my soul." (Laughs)
    Varric: My favorite was, "Your lips are like the wings of sparrows. Red ones. With no feathers."
    Isabela: "Oh, speak! And send the plucked wings of your lips soaring."
    Varric: I'd buy the guy a drink, but I don't think he needs one. 



    Varric: You have got to tell me what was in that box, Rivaini.
    Isabela: Which box? I've opened so many...
    Varric: Well, those too. But later. Right now: that Qunari relic.
    Isabela: I'll make you a deal: I'll tell you what was in that box if you tell me how Bianca got her name.
    Varric: Fine, forget I asked. Evil woman. 



    Isabela: Come to me, and I'll take you to places you've never been...
    Varric: Isabela... Are you talking to Bianca?
    Isabela: I think she deserves to feel a woman's touch on her trigger, don't you?
    Varric: Bianca responds to my touch. She'd never give it up for you.
    Isabela: That's what they always say, and I always prove them wrong.
    Varric: Stop it. You're confusing her. And me. 



(If you complete The Long Road)

    Isabela: Psst. I've got some of it written down now.
    Varric: Give it here.
    Varric: "Her breasts strained against the leather jerkin like two wild stallions corralled against their will." (Chuckles)
    Varric: "She pouncedthe smooth moves of a jungle catand locked her thighs around Donnic's waist. He" 

(If Aveline is in the party)

    Aveline: What?
    Isabela: Nothing.
    Aveline: What is that?
    Isabela: Shh! (Giggles)
    Varric: Isabela just thought she'd celebrate your love affair with a... written dedication.
    Isabela: It's "friend fiction!" I do it out of love.
    Aveline: I will never, ever be clean again. 

(If not)

    Isabela: Maybe you should read the rest of it in private.
    Varric: I think that's best. 



Act 3

    Isabela: Varric, how does one get made a Paragon?
    Varric: The Assembly votes on it. Enough votes, andBAM!you're a living God!
    Isabela: You should ask to be made a Paragon. Of manliness.
    Varric: I like the way you think, Rivaini, but one doesn't just ask to be made a Paragon.
    Isabela: Why not? Everyone can see you're a paragon of manliness. It's just a matter of making it official. 



    Varric: After all this, the life of a pirate is going to be dull, isn't it?
    Isabela: I know! I'll have to steal myself another Qunari relic.
    Varric: The scary thing is, I don't know if you're joking!
    Isabela: Of course I'm joking. I'm not getting involved with those people again.
    Isabela: No... this time, I'll steal the Queen of Antiva. There's no way that could go wrong. 



(If Hawke romances Merrill)

    Varric: So, Hawke and Daisy.
    Isabela: I think they're darling together. 

(If Hawke previously slept with Isabela)

    Varric: Really? You're not at all jealous? Because I thought you and Hawke...
    Isabela: Hawke was just a dalliance. You know I've still got my eye on you.
    Varric: Keep dreaming, Rivaini. 

(Otherwise)

    Varric: It's almost too adorable. Well, except for the evil blood magic thing.
    Isabela: The most evil thing Merrill does most days is pick the flowers out of other people's gardens.
    Varric: I know, I have to bribe most of the gardeners in Hightown to keep it quiet. 



(During The Last Straw after choosing sides)

    Varric: Just curious, does any of this make sense to you?
    Isabela: What? This whole "everyone's waiting for the world to end" thing?
    Varric: That, yes.
    Isabela: Not remotely.
    Varric: Good. It's not just me, then. 

Varric and Merrill Edit

Act 1

    Merrill: I've never met a dwarf before.
    Varric: That's because you spend too much time frolicking in the woods, Daisy. Dwarves don't frolic.
    Merrill: Dalish don't really frolic, either. Not in the woods anyway.
    Varric: You have sanctioned frolicking areas?
    Merrill: No, just not in the woods. The trees get jealous.
    Varric: But you do frolic?
    Merrill: Of course we do! We wouldn't be elves, otherwise. 



    Merrill: You remind me of Hahren Paivel, Varric. Only younger. And shorter. And not as serious.
    Varric: So it's a close resemblance, then.
    Merrill: Well, he tells stories. And you tell stories. Although none of his begin, "No shit, there I was."
    Varric: I'll have to give him some better stories, then. 



(After you speak to Merrill in her home for the first time)

    Merrill: Thank you very much for the help earlier, Varric!
    Varric: You made it back to the Alienage in one piece, then?
    Merrill: I don't know how I wound up in Darktown. There are just too many corners in Kirkwall.
    Varric: Still got that ball of twine?
    Merrill: I left it at my house. Don't worry! I won't get lost while we're following Hawke.
    Varric: Bring it next time, Daisy. Just in case. 



    Varric: Daisy, for my sake, please quit cutting through the alleys in Lowtown alone at night.
    Merrill: Nothing ever happens. I'm perfectly safe, Varric.
    Varric: Yes, I know. And that nothing is costing me a fortune. 



Act 2

    Varric: So, I hear you've been visiting the viscount's garden, Daisy.
    Merrill: They're enormous! And they're always empty. Why don't more people go to see them?
    Varric: Probably because they're private and surrounded by guards.
    Merrill: I thought all those men looked a bit cross. 



    Merrill: Bianca is a very pretty name.
    Varric: I'll tell her you said so, Daisy.
    Merrill: She can't actually hear you, can she?
    Varric: Of course she can. What kind of a question is that?
    Merrill: Wait, are we talking about your crossbow or something else now? 



(If you complete Family Matter)

    Merrill: I'm sorry about your brother, Varric. Have you any other family?
    Varric: (Snorts) I have family like a rat has fleas, Daisy.
    Merrill: Does that mean you have a lot of family, or that they make you itch a lot?
    Varric: Both. 

(Alternatively)

    Varric: I'm sure any priest who would pray for Bartrand would burst into flames.
    Merrill: Oh, I didn't know priesthood was so dangerous.
    Varric: Don't worry Daisy, the chantry keeps a lot of water on hand. 



(If you complete Mirror Image)

    Varric: Why a mirror?
    Merrill: I don't understand the question.
    Varric: If your people were going to make a magical whatever for talking to each other, why choose a mirror?
    Varric: Do elves spend a lot of time talking to their own reflections?
    Merrill: I suppose the ancient elves would have felt silly talking to a wardrobe or an urn. 



Act 3

    Merrill: You should have this back.
    Varric: Twine? When did I loan you a ball of twine?
    Merrill: You gave it to me when I first moved here when I kept getting lost in Lowtown.
    Merrill: It drove the merchants in the market completely batty, but it did help me find my way.
    Varric: Keep it, Daisy.
    Merrill: I don't think I'll be getting lost again anytime soon.
    Varric: You never know. You might need to tie a package up, hang a lantern, dress a roast chicken. It's multipurpose. 



    Merrill: Is there a story behind Bianca?
    Varric: There's a story behind everything, Daisy.
    Merrill: So tell me!
    Varric: I can't.
    Merrill: Why not?
    Varric: There was a girl, and I made a promise. Bianca is the only story I can never tell.
    Merrill: You can't say that! Now I want to know even more!
    Varric: That was the idea, Daisy. 



(During A New Path)

    Varric: Does anybody else get the feeling that this is going to end badly? Just me huh?
    Merrill: It's not all bad Varric, think of the stories you'll be able to tell later.
    Varric: No offense Daisy, but I could live without telling anyone that we murdered you on some mountain side, it's little hard to made that one sound good. 



(During A New Path)

    Varric: Who thought putting a demon in a cave on Sundermount was a good idea in the first place?
    Merrill: Where would you have put him?
    Varric: Tevinter maybe? Or in the Anderfels? Further away from Kirkwall that's for sure. 




    Merrill: How do you do it, living in the city without picking a side? Doesn't it matter to you?
    Varric: Of course it does. That's why I don't take sides.
    Merrill: That doesn't make any sense.
    Varric: I've got you and Aveline, Fenris and Anders. Hawke. Isabela.
    Varric: I've got friends in the Circle and drinking buddies in the templars. All of them matter.
    Merrill: But you're going to fight. If it comes to that, I mean.
    Varric: I fought my own brother, Daisy. Nobody said this was going to be happy story. 



(During The Last Straw)

    Merrill: Varric, how does the story end?
    Varric: Which story, Daisy?
    Merrill: The big one. With us and Hawke, the mages and templars. Everything.
    Varric: You want to know before it happens? You're not worried about spoiling the surprise?
    Merrill: I might not see it end.
    Varric: You have to stick with us if you want to find out how it turns out, Daisy. 

Varric and Sebastian Edit

Act 2

    Sebastian: It's been very exciting working with Hawke.
    Varric: Are you for real?
    Sebastian:
        (If Hawke is male) It seems like he's involved every time there's a crisis in Kirkwall.
        (If Hawke is female) It seems like she's involved every time something goes wrong in Kirkwall. 
    Sebastian: I've never had so many opportunities to help people!
    Varric: All right. I thought I was getting tired of moody. I take it back.
    Varric: You're making my teeth ache. 



    Varric: So, Choir Boy, this usurper of yours is... twenty feet tall?
    Sebastian: Not even close, no.
    Varric: But he has claws for hands, right?
    Sebastian: Fingers. Perfectly normal ones. If a little fat, perhaps.
    Varric: He eats babies, though. And farts fire.
    Sebastian: You're not serious, I hope.
    Varric: You can't even pretend to be interesting, can you? 



    Sebastian: You must forgive your brother.
    Varric: While you were off playing prince, Bartrand trapped us in the Deep Roads and left us to die.
    Sebastian: When you hold onto anger, it colors everything you do.
    Sebastian: You escaped the Deep Roads. You built a life without your brother. Do you still want him haunting you?
    Varric: Oh, go find some beggars to sing to, will you? 



    Varric: Tell us about Starkhaven, Choir Boy. I'm sure we're all burning with curiosity about your far away land.
    Sebastian: "My far away land?" It's inland Free Marches, not on the moon.
    Varric: And here I was hoping...
    Sebastian: It's a lot like here. But fewer dead people.
    Varric: Well, you don't have Hawke. 



Act 3

    Varric: I've heard rumors about Starkhaven, you know.
    Varric: They say you eat the dead up there. And murder strangers in the street.
    Sebastian: Why do I suspect that when you say you've "heard" rumors, you mean you've invented some?
    Varric: Six of one, half dozen of another. 



    Varric: You know, Choir Boy, I wouldn't normally say this, butthe shiny white armor? It works for you.
    Sebastian: That's uncharacteristically kind of you, Varric.
    Varric: Makes you look like a lacquered pilot whale.
    Sebastian: Ah, now that was much more in character. 



    Sebastian: You know, if you have time, I could give you a few archery pointers.
    Varric: Excuse me?
    Sebastian: Sometimes your shots veer a little left, I thought maybe your cocking ring was off.
    Sebastian: I could take a look if you like.
    Varric: You want to touch Bianca's cocking ring?
    Sebastian: It was just a thought. 



    Varric: So, I've known you for three years now. I give up. You beat me. What is it?
    Varric: You like boys? Sheep? You slept with your sister?
    Sebastian: What are you talking about?
    Varric: What are you hiding? Nobody's this bloody clean.
    Varric: After you leave the chantry you... get drunk at the Hanged Man and walk around in women's clothes? 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: Not that I've seen. Unfortunately.
    Sebastian: I've been honest with you and Hawke.
    Varric: Liar.
    Sebastian: Lying is a sin. 

Legacy Edit
Varric's remarks Edit

    (If in Act 1) "This is great! Now I can tell Bartrand you're an experienced Deep Roads explorer!"
    (If in Act 3) "I hope you told Bodahn where you were going. If you never come back, maybe someone will send a search party after their Champion."
    (Approaching the first corpse of a Legionnaire in the Tower Base) "That looks like Legion of the Dead armour. It's an Orzammar thing. No matter your crime if you join the Legion and vow to die fighting darkspawn, your name is cleared."
    (If Anders is in the party) "I had a friend from the Legion once. A girl named Sigrun. Not nearly as dour as you'd expect."
    (After reading the First Legionnaire's journal) "The Legion of the Dead...sent after Paragon Garen's heir. Why does that sound familiar? I think Garen was some time in the early Exalted Age... hundreds of years ago."
    (After Hawke says the funeral rite to Tethras Garen) "That was sweet Hawke. Now let's get out of here before you see me cry.
    (After speaking with Larius or Janeka) "So does anyone else feel like we're walking into a trap? Just me? Good to know."
    (While Hawke is breaking the seals) "Maybe we should prepare for, I don't know, the end of the world? Just in case?" 



(Reacting to Anders' hearing voices)

    "Come on, Blondie. You're strong enough to overcome this."
    "Hang in there, Blondie! We're going to get you out of this!" 



(In battle with Corypheus)

    "Keep clear of the flames! Sometimes I hate having short legs!"
    "Pay attention, Hawke. I really don't want this story to end "And then they all got splattered.""
    "I was just thinking, "What's missing here?" A giant storm, of course!"
    "If he pulls a dragon out of his ass, I'm leaving!" 

Varric and Hawke Edit

    Hawke: Varric, I've heard... stories of a personal nature being spread around town. 

(If Act 3, otherwise depending on friendship/rivalry)

    Varric: You're the Champion of Kirkwall. People pay attention to everything you do. And everyone. 

(Friendship)

    Varric: And you want me to set the record straight? I'm honored. 

(Rivalry)

    Varric: If you want your private life to stay, uh, private, maybe don't sleep with half of Kirkwall. 

(If romancing Anders)

    Varric: As it happens, I haven't said a word about you and Blondie. I'd look at that, uh, uncle of yours for this particular rumor.
    Anders: I'm right here, you know. Should I stick my fingers in my ears until you're done? 

(If romancing Fenris)

    Varric: I haven't told anyone about you and that, uh, angsty Tevinter elf. Try looking closer to home for that intelligence leak.
    Fenris: Angsty Tevinter Elf?
    Varric: What can I say? I strive for accuracy. 

(If romancing Isabela)

    Varric: I'm not spreading any tales about you and the Rivaini. Although she asks me every other week to start some.
    Isabela: It would make a great new serial. Much better than that guard one you've been writing. 

(If romancing Merrill)

    Varric: I haven't breathed a word to anyone about you and Daisy. Maybe you better have a talk with uh, uncle greasy?
    Hawke: Gamlen. 



    Hawke: Someday I'll visit a place with no ancient evils, horrors, devouring plagues, or insanity.
    Hawke: Maybe a beach.
    Isabela: I can recommend a few, if you'd like.
    Hawke: Please do. 

(If Varric is in the party)

    Varric: The day you go to the beach is the day an armada of angry demon pirates show up.
    Hawke: I've got a bad feeling all of a sudden. 



    Hawke: When you tell people about our escape from Lothering, why do you make it seem like I have food all over my face?
    Varric: You're larger than life, Hawke. I had to give you a few flaws just to make you approachable.
    Hawke: Did you call me fat?
    Varric: Yes, that's pretty much how I tell it. "Hawke rolled into the fray like a gigantic pudding, covered in gravy." It's more dramatic that way. 

(If Hawke has a diplomatic/helpful personality)

    Hawke: I'm not sure about the epicness of this tale. 

(If Hawke has a humorous/charming personality)

    Hawke: Does it have to be gravy? Couldn't it be chocolate instead? 

(If Hawke has an aggressive/direct personality)

    Hawke: I hope the story ends, "And then Hawke backhanded the mouthy dwarf."
    Varric: Everyone's a critic. 



    Hawke: I'd like to know who this "Corypheus" is. With a name like that, I know he's bound to go "Muahaha" at some point, I just know it. And really? More blood? Why can't it ever be spit or a lock of hair?
    Varric: You really want to encounter a spit mage?
    Hawke: For variety, sure. 

(If Carver is in the party and in a friendship)

    Carver: You worry me, you know that? 

(Rivalry)

    Carver: Oh, shut up. 



    Hawke: I heard you're being fixed up with one of the Helmi daughters.
    Varric: Thanks Hawke. I've been trying to forget about that all week.
    Hawke: So... not love at first sight?
    Varric: Dusana Helmi is easy on the eyes. Also, she's tried to kill me five times this year.
    Hawke: Did she try again during the date?
    Varric: She waited until I paid for dinner. She's in the Merchant's Guild, Hawke.
    Hawke: So, you're not going to see her again?
    Varric: No. And I might leave town for a while just to make sure.
    Hawke: Being the most eligible bachelor in the Merchant Guild is perilous indeed.
    Varric: I'm going to need more aliases. 



    Hawke: I'm surprised you agreed to come, Varric. You hate being underground and you avoid the Carta the same way you do the Merchant Guild.
    Varric: There's no way I'd miss watching you make these motherless nug lickers cry. If you wanna punch a few stalagmites on the way there, that's good too. 



(Upon reaching the Final Seal)

    Varric: Oh, that's nice.
    Hawke: What's so nice about it?
    Varric: I was just wondering what some place sinister and foreboding would look like, and here it is. 

Varric and Anders Edit

    Anders: More Deep Roads. Why did we agree to do this again? 

(If Hawke is in a romance with Anders)

    Varric: Because I like trouble, and you think Hawke is cute. That wasn't a serious question, was it, Blondie?
    Anders: He/she is pretty cute. 

(Otherwise)

    Varric: This isn't so bad, Blondie. You could be losing more coin to the elf in a game of Wicked Grace.
    Anders: (Groans) At this rate, I'll still be paying him back when I'm dead. 



    Anders: How's this going to fit into your grand tale, Varric? "Hawke and friends walked for a really long time in nasty tunnels that smelled like nug shit."
    Varric: Well, I'd probably say something like... "Then around the corner, we caught the sight of an entirely new type of darkspawn." You had to ask, Blondie. 

Varric and Aveline Edit

    Aveline: Did you know anything about this Carta, Varric?
    Varric: Not my crowd. Unsubtle. Kind of fuzzy in their business plan... uh, I assume.
    Aveline: You keep secrets and people die.
    Varric: You keep kicking random beehives and you'll get stung.
    Aveline: What's that supposed to mean?
    Varric: No keeper, no bees, no honey. I like honey.
    Aveline: Damn it, dwarf. 



    Aveline: All right, tell me. How does it end?
    Varric: Beg your pardon?
    Aveline: That guard story of yours. The... the one with a guardsman who falls in love with a templar knight captain.
    Varric: Oh, the romance! Swords and Shields. I just started that serial. It's got ten chapters to go.
    Aveline: Yes, but you know how it ends! Just tell me.
    Varric: I've got an idea, but the story... the story will go where it wants to go. The characters drive it, not me.
    Aveline: You're the author! That makes no sense at all!
    Varric: A good story, you don't really write. It was always there. You just uncover it. 



(Upon seeing the Power Nexus Puzzle)

    Varric: Ugh, why does it always have to be so complicated? Can't Aveline just bash through the wall?
    Aveline: Very funny, Varric. 



    Varric: We passed another broken pillar. You know what that means. 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: Everybody take a drink! 

(If Anders is in the party)

    Anders: The last time we played this game, I kissed an ogre. Please let's not go there again. 

(If Aveline is in the party)

    Aveline: Didn't the last game end with Isabela getting Orlesian with a lyrium vein?
    Varric: Yep!
    Aveline: Carry on then. 

Varric and Bethany Edit

(During Act 1)

    Varric: Sunshine? What's wrong? Not feeling well?
    Bethany: I'm fine, Varric. Just... I expected... templars, or blackmail. I never thought our home would come under attack.
    Varric: Good. Keep thinking that way. It's got to be nice to think of some place as safe. 



(If Bethany in the Circle)

    Varric: Good to be out and about Sunshine?
    Bethany: It's exciting, I'll say that. How much does someone want me dead to attack me in the Gallows?
    Varric: A Hawke attracting obsessives with a poor grasp of consequence? Colour me stunned.
    Bethany: (Laughs) Be serious!
    Varric: Sorry, I have a reputation to maintain. 



(If Bethany is a Grey Warden)

    Varric: You're not looking so sunny, Sunshine.
    Bethany: It's not how I wanted to come back. If I did at all.
    Varric: Now, maybe the old place didn't roll out the welcome, but it's still home, right?
    Bethany: I've spent more time as a Warden than I did in Kirkwall.
    Varric: It ain't the buildings I'm talking about. It's good to see you.
    Bethany: Thank you. 

Varric and Carver Edit

(During Act 1)

    Varric: What's the matter Junior? Three assassination attempts! You're the centre of attention! I thought you'd be happier.
    Carver: They were trying to lure my brother into a trap, that's all.
    Varric: It's a start. Keep at it and pretty soon, you'll get some thugs of your very own. 



(If Carver is a templar)

    Varric: I'll bet the Knight Commander was thrilled one of her templars was attacked in the Gallows.
    Carver: Ecstatic.
    Varric: Did she make you clean up the mess?
    Carver: We hired some dwarves. Proper ones, with swabbing beards.
    Varric: Good to know the Paragons have steady work. 



(If Carver is a Grey Warden)

    Varric: You've been away too long, Junior.
    Carver: Running short of fodder for your stories?
    Varric: Do you know another lovable lug with more sword than sense?
    Carver: I've seen things far more threatening than your verse, my friend. Do your worst.
    Varric: So be it. We shall meet in battle when properly drunk. And safe from darkspawn, blah blah blah. 

Varric and Fenris Edit

    Fenris: Now this is unexpected. I thought all dwarves did was drink.
    Varric: Hey now!
    Fenris: And lie. Pardon the omission.
    Varric: That's better. 



(If Varric is not in the party)

    Fenris: Now this is unexpected. I thought all dwarves did was drink.
    Hawke: And Varric not here to respond, tsk tsk tsk.
    Fenris: He's probably drinking. 



    Varric: You, elf, are one lucky son of a bitch.
    Fenris: Is this about the diamondback game? Again?
    Varric: I've never seen anyone bluff like that in my life! I was sure you had a hand full of nothing.
    Fenris: So was I. You're the one who pointed out I had four serpents.
    Varric: See? Luckiest bastard I've ever seen. 



    Fenris: So, Varric, this "spy network" of yours...
    Varric: Oh, this I have to hear.
    Fenris: You don't have one, do you? You make it all up.
    Varric: Could be. That, or I have an army of elven urchins, and they're all watching.
    Fenris: You are a strange, hairy little man. 



(If neither Isabela or Fenris are in a romance with Hawke)

    Varric: So, elf, what's this I've been hearing about you and the Rivaini?
    Fenris: None of your business, dwarf.
    Varric: Just be careful. I get the impression that Isabela's breakups turn into bloodbaths.
    Isabela: That's part of the fun. 



    Fenris: A dwarven prison?
    Varric: Dwarves don't do prisons, elf. This is a trash heap. They threw something away here and hoped it wouldn't come back. 



    Fenris: Clearly these dwarves are insane. Perhaps even more so than Varric.
    Varric: I heard that. 

Varric and Isabela Edit

    Varric: We passed another broken pillar. You know what that means. 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: Everybody take a drink! 

(If Anders is in the party)

    Anders: The last time we played this game, I kissed an ogre. Please let's not go there again. 

(If Aveline is in the party)

    Aveline: Didn't the last game end with Isabela getting Orlesian with a lyrium vein?
    Varric: Yep!
    Aveline: Carry on then. 



    Isabela: You've a nickname for everyone.
    Varric: That's true. Rivaini.
    Isabela: But everyone just calls you Varric. That's hardly fair.
    Varric: Well, it's my story.
    Isabela: What?
    Varric: Nothing. 



(Approaching the abandoned quarry in the Vimmark Wasteland)

    Isabela: Dwarves are funny. Look at them scurrying away on their stumpy little legs.
    Varric: I heard that.
    Isabela: It's cute when you do it.
    Varric: Well, it's my story. 

Varric and Merrill Edit

    Merrill: Do your stories ever have griffons in them?
    Varric: Kind of tricky because they're extinct. You can work a griffon attack into a town but it takes skill.
    Merrill: I was thinking more like... heroic griffons. The sort that swoop in and save the day.
    Varric: Daisy, haven't you heard? Swooping is bad.
    Merrill: Oh.
    Varric: I could do heroic charging, though. You want me to call him "Feathers"?
    Merrill: Yes! And make him extra fluffy! 



    Merrill: Am I in your stories, Varric?
    Varric: Daisy, everyone is fair game for my stories.
    Merrill: I never hear any stories with me in them! What sorts of things do I do?
    Varric: Well, you get lost a lot. You wind up in the middle of a dog racing track in Darktown. Or in the viscount's bathing room.
    Merrill: So they're true stories?
    Varric: Daisy, I could never make that stuff up. Nobody would believe it. 

Varric and Sebastian Edit

    Varric: Choir boy! What are you doing?
    Sebastian: Nothing! Nothing!
    Varric: Are you trying to peek at my notes?
    Sebastian: I've... heard some strange rumours about a "belt buckle of righteousness."
    Varric: Did you hear the part about how it tells the future of your pants, or how it burns its expression into the faces of sinners? The pants one is my favourite. Has more pathos. 



    Sebastian: We don't have many dwarves in Starkhaven. Is the Carta part of the Merchants' Guild?
    Varric: Are you kidding? The Carta's only the worst gang of thugs in Orzammar. Their main trades are lyrium smuggling, gambling and murder for hire.
    Sebastian: I'm sorry. I didn't know
    Varric: So, yes. Basically, just like the Guild. 

Mark of the Assassin Edit
Varric's remarks Edit

    (After meeting Tallis) "The lady knows how to make an entrance."
    (When clicked on a friendship path) "Why is it you never take me anywhere nice?"
    (When clicked on a rivalry path) "You just can't keep out of trouble, can you?"
    (When clicked) "I'm sure you're eager to punch something, Hawke, but don't look at me."
    (About the three statues in the Dungeons) "And this array of sculptures is known as "Scurvy Bastards Reflecting on Modern Life." After much reflection, they appear to have come to the conclusion, "Well, shit.""
    (When clicked, during the wyvern hunt) "Are we actually supposed to catch one of these things or just look fashionable doing it? I never can tell with Orlesians."
    (When clicked after leaving the Dungeons, if you help Tallis) "Nobody is going to believe this story later." 

Varric and Hawke Edit

    Hawke: Who in the blazes is that?
    Varric: Don't know! Kill people, then ask!
    Tallis: Good plan! 



(After the ambush in Hightown)

    Varric: So, that meeting with Edge?
    Hawke: The one that turned into an ambush just now?
    Varric: I changed my mind. Let's not go. 



    Hawke: What makes you think I steal things because people ask me to? 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: Well I would. 

(If Aveline is also in the party)

    Aveline: (Scoffs) What don't you do? 

(If Fenris is in the party)

    Fenris: That's our Isabela. Such a giver. 

    Varric: I may have talked you up a bit. Maybe more than once. 

(If Hawke has a diplomatic/helpful personality)

    Hawke: Oh Varric. 

(If Hawke has a humorous/charming personality)

    Hawke: Wonderful. 

(If Hawke is a mage)

    Varric: What? You'd rather I told everyone you were a mage? 



    Hawke: Varric.
    Varric: You called?
    Hawke: I notice you don't have a nickname for me.
    Varric: I call you Hawke. You've probably heard it once or twice.
    Hawke: But that's my name. It's not like Daisy or Blondie. 

(If Hawke has a diplomatic/helpful personality)

    Varric: All right, Waffles. You really want a nickname, I can hook you up.
    Hawke: Waffles? That's... unexpected. 

(If Hawke has a humorous/charming personality)

    Varric: Sure, Chuckles. You want a nickname, I'll be happy to fix you up.
    Hawke: Chuckles? That works. 

(If Hawke has an aggressive/direct personality)

    Varric: If you really want a nickname, I can oblige. I'm thinking about going with Killer.
    Hawke: How creative. 



    Varric: Watch it. Ghast hole.
    Hawke: A what hole?
    Varric: A scholar might call it something else, but they don't know their ghasts from a hole in the ground. 

(If Anders is in the party)

    Anders: And they say I'm the monster. 

(If Aveline is in the party)

    Aveline: I'm going to hit him. I'll do it. 

(If Bethany is in the party)

    Bethany: Oh, for the love of... 

(If Carver is in the party)

    Carver: (Laughs) 

(If Fenris is in the party)

    Fenris: That one actually hurt. 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: (Snickers) 

(Else)

    Hawke: Why do you bad touch words like that? 



    Hawke: I've always meant to ask, Varric, when we met in the Merchant Guild, you seemed to be waiting for me.
    Varric: That's a statement, Hawke. What's your question?
    Hawke: Were you waiting for me?
    Varric: Actually, I meant to catch you before you saw Bartrand.
    Hawke: But you knew I'd be there.
    Varric: Maybe I wasn't obvious about this already, but finding out things I'm not supposed to know is pretty much what I do. 

Varric and Anders Edit

    Anders: Couldn't you talk to Gallard for me? He likes you.
    Varric: I told you not to play that last hand.
    Anders: Yes, but I did it anyway, and now the Coterie has an IOU for my right ear.
    Varric: Gallard won't collect on that. He's got enough ears of his own.
    Anders: You didn't hear him admiring mine all night. And saying that he's always wanted a hat made of human ears. And calling a hatter.
    Varric: Look on the bright side, losing your ear will add to your tortured look. Some women really like that. 



    Anders: Orlesian.
    Varric: Fop. Um... Party.
    Anders: Crash.
    Varric: Seriously, Blondie? No one ever invites you anywhere?
    Anders: I've spent most of my life with the Circle, Grey Wardens, or refugees. Not party people, most of them.
    Anders: So... templar.
    Varric: Argh! Anders is talking about templars again! Does that count as one word? 

(Alternate; after Dissent)

    Anders: Would you?
    Varric: Good point.
    Anders: So... templar.
    Varric: Argh! Anders is talking about templars again! Does that count as one word? 



(While trying to find Hawke and Tallis)

    Varric: Blondie, I hate to say this, but I'm pretty sure we've been here before.
    Anders: Blast it! But we went left this time! We shouldn't have come full circle again!
    Varric: I wish I hadn't given that ball of twine to Daisy.
    Anders: You can't tell anyone about this! I mean it, Varric! Not a word! 

Varric and Aveline Edit

    Varric: Should have come to the Hanged Man last week. You missed Brennan drunk off her ass, reciting love poems to Corff.
    Aveline: She did not!
    Varric: Four hours she spent clinging to the bar, shouting sonnets at the poor man.
    Aveline: Ugh, a guardsman's poetry. That's assault, that is.
    Varric: Keep an eye on her. I think she's in possession of a few concealed dirty limericks, too. 



    Aveline: Are these sort of people who buy that drivel you write?
    Varric: Can you blame them? Shut up in their dreary castles, surrounded by other stuffy nobles who only talk about money and politics...
    Varric: How could they not long for the cold days and hot nights of a fiery, passionate guardswoman?
    Aveline: I prefer my tales a little more grounded. Less of the "giant sword and heaving bosom" variety. 



(While looking for Hawke and Tallis)

    Aveline: We've been going in circles for over an hour.
    Varric: I'm so used to Hawke leading the way, I think my sense of direction has withered.
    Varric:
        (if Hawke is male) So... wait for him to rescue us?
        (if Hawke is female) So... wait here for her to rescue us? 
    Aveline: When you tell this part? Leave it out. 

Varric and Bethany Edit

    Varric: What's the matter, Sunshine? Thought you'd be enjoying the whole "fancy Orlesian estate" thing more. 

(If Bethany is a Circle Mage)

    Bethany: I can't believe I wore this to the chateau! Maker, what was I thinking?
    Varric: That it's the uniform of the Circle and you could make a burlap sack look good?
    Bethany: It's hardly the height of fashion.
    Varric: You would kill these people if you wore the height of fashion.
    Bethany: I suppose one must be merciful. 

(If Bethany is a Grey Warden)

    Bethany: I used to want this, you know?
    Varric: Still do. I can tell.
    Bethany: But it's far, far less likely to happen.
    Varric: Since when does "want" give two squirts about "likely?" Enjoy it.
    Bethany: "Two squirts," Varric?
    Varric: Ah, all this grandeur has me eloquented out. 

(While looking for Hawke and Tallis. If Bethany is a Circle Mage)

    Bethany: Keep up, Varric. I'm sure we're almost there.
    Varric: You've certainly quickened your stride in the last few years.
    Bethany: Too much to learn. Or, you know, rescue.
    Varric: (warmly) There's my Sunshine. Let's go! 

(While looking for Hawke and Tallis. If Bethany is a Grey Warden)

    Bethany: Keep up, Varric. I'm sure we're almost there.
    Varric: You've certainly quickened your stride in the last few years.
    Bethany: I found out there's a lot more to run from.
    Varric: And towards, I hope. Speaking of which, to the rescue! 

Varric and Carver Edit

(During Act 1)

    Carver: How do you put up with Bartrand? He's the most arrogant horse's ass I've ever met.
    Varric: It's not that hard, Junior. He's my brother.
    Carver: Don't start with that "unconditional love" rubbish.
    Varric: Forget family ties: I have blackmail material forever. At any point, I can launch into the story of how he peed himself at a grand ball.
    Carver: Yeah, all right, I'd pay to hear that. 



(During Act 2 or Act 3)

    Carver: Still playing the innocent while picking every purse in sight?
    Varric: Still... actually, you're doing all right.
    Carver: Thought I was. I suppose it's the same for you, really.
    Varric: 'Tis true, 'tis true. (Sighs)
    Carver: It's more fun hating each other, isn't it.
    Varric: Absolutely. 



(While looking for Hawke and Tallis. If Carver is a Grey Warden)

    Carver: So, we're lost.
    Varric: Just like old times.
    Carver: Maker, I hope not. I was an ass.
    Varric: (laughs) Fair comment, Junior. All right, let's get this done. 

Varric and Fenris Edit

(While trying to find Hawke and Tallis)

    Fenris: And...here we are again. For the fourth time.
    Varric: Fifth, I think.
    Fenris: What do we do now?
    Varric: Play Diamondback and wait for Hawke to find us? 

Note: Unlike most scenes that end with the two companions running away, this one merely fades out after Varric's line.


    Fenris: You know, I saw a crossbow just like Bianca in the market the other day.
    Varric: What? Why didn't you tell me?
    Fenris: You... already have a crossbow.
    Varric: I don't want to replace her, but... she could use a friend. Someone to sit on the mantle with.
    Fenris: Right.
    Varric: Don't listen to him, Bianca. You deserve happiness, just like anyone else. 



(After Talli's identity is revealed)

    Varric: How did you learn to speak Qunari?
    Tallis: I wouldn't call what he does "speaking Qunari."
    Fenris: I picked it up by listening to them.
    Varric: That's the part I don't get. I've almost never heard Qunari talking to each other. They just stand around and glower.
    Fenris: That's because they know you're watching. When there's no foreigners around, they gossip and complain just like anyone.
    Tallis: Sometimes more. The antaam has made grousing a sport. 

Varric and Isabela Edit

    Varric: Our little Hawke is growing up, Rivaini. 

(If Hawke is female)

    Isabela: Burglary and espionage! We should've hired a painter to get her portrait so we can remember this day forever!
    Varric: Next thing you know, she'll be conning guards and cutting purses without us. Where does the time go? 

(If Hawke is male)

    Isabela: I know! Burglary and espionage! I'm so proud of him right now, I could burst!
    Varric: Soon, he'll be sharking card games and swindling merchants all on his own! Brings a tear to my eye! 

(If Hawke has a diplomatic/helpful personality)

    Hawke: Don't get carried away.
    Isabela: Carried away? Us? Perish the thought!
    Varric: We are the very souls of moderation, Hawke. You know that. 

(If Hawke has a humorous/charming personality)

    Hawke: Everything I know about being a scoundrel, I learned from you two.
    Isabela: I think I'm going to cry. Look at me! I'm getting misty eyed! 

(If Hawke has an aggressive/direct personality)

    Hawke: I can hear you, you know.
    Isabela: Still a grouch, though. So much to teach, so little time... 



    Isabela: So I hear there was very little dancing at the party. Not a flounce or a pirouette in sight.
    Varric: Didn't think you'd show interest in any dance that doesn't end with someone's guts on the floor.
    Isabela: All women like dancing. Just ask Bianca.
    Varric: Bianca isn't interested in any dance that doesn't end with someone's guts on the floor.
    Isabela: Oh. Right. 



(While looking for Hawke and Tallis)

    Isabela: I give up! We've been through every inch of this place twice, and there's no sign of them!
    Varric: Or we've been through the same twenty feet of this place about a dozen times. It's hard to tell, Rivaini.
    Isabela: We should have gone treasure hunting in Wildervale instead.
    Varric: You're still upset that you couldn't swipe a drink from the party, aren't you? 

Varric and Merrill Edit

    Merrill: I know you're in the Merchants Guild, Varric, but I've never seen your shop.
    Varric: We're not that kind of merchant, Daisy.
    Merrill: What kind are you, then?
    Varric: House Tethas invests in... you're not going to understand a word of this financial stuff, are you?
    Merrill: Not a word, no. But I promise to pay close attention anyway!
    Varric: Right. In that case, we have lots of shops. But they're invisible. Only dwarves and accountants can see them. 



    Merrill: Tell me a story, Varric.
    Varric: Right now? I don't think we have time, Daisy.
    Merrill: Maybe a very short story, then? Please?
    Varric: Fine. "When the cards turned, he lost."
    Merrill: Oh. Did it have to be so sad? 

Varric and Sebastian Edit

    Sebastian: Your Merchants Guild reminds me of the court at Starkhaven. Intrigue and gossip wrapped in a layer of formality.
    Varric: If Starkhaven was a tenth as bad, I see why you took to the Chantry.
    Sebastian: Fashion was the worst part. In the Chantry, I never have to worry whether doublets are meant to be fitted or padded this year.
    Varric: In Starkhaven, do they bludgeon you to death for forgetting the name of a minor clerk's third daughter?
    Sebastian: Only if you're lucky.
    Varric: Choir Boy, suddenly your life makes much more sense to me. 



    Sebastian: I'm surprised your parents never married you off, Varric.
    Varric: I was still in diapers when my father died. I'm sure he was getting around to it.
    Sebastian: And your brother never married either, right? Wasn't he concerned about continuing the Tethras line?
    Varric: Your family's dead and you're still celibate, right? 

(If Hawke is male)

    Varric: Why don't you take care of that little quirk before you come bothering me. 

(If Hawke is female)

    Varric: Or has Hawke managed to talk you out of that?
    Hawke: (Sighs) Not yet.
    Varric: Pity. 



    Sebastian: You know, we're not that different, Varric. There was a time when I spent my days drinking and gambling.
    Varric: Was this before or after you got Andraste's face soldered to your pelvis?
    Sebastian: During, actually. That's not the sort of thing a man does while he's sober. I'm just lucky it's a belt buckle and not a tattoo. 



(While looking for Hawke and Tallis)

    Sebastian: When you tell people about this part of our adventure, what are you going to say?
    Varric: That depends entirely on the audience, Choir Boy.
    Sebastian: You change the story to suit the listener?
    Varric:
        (if Hawke is male) Of course. All the bullshit in the world won't convince Hawke we rescued him if he finds us first.
        (if Hawke is female) No bullshithowever well toldwill persuade Hawke that we rescued her if she finds us first. That's common sense. 


Varric and Tallis Edit

(Entering Hunting Grounds   West for the first time)

    Tallis: So these are the hunting grounds.
    Varric: I take it we run around randomly shouting, "Here, wyvern wyvern wyvern!" 



(After some hunters make remarks about wyverns during the hunt)

    Varric: You want to just stand back and watch? Should be good for a few laughs."
    Tallis: Just ignore them. 



    Tallis: Last name Tethras, right? I've heard of that clan.
    Varric: Get out! Nobody's heard of Clan Tethras.
    Tallis: My father owned a dwarven sword with a Clan Tethras rune on it.
    Varric: Huh. Must have been Dusan. He was a smith. Tried to become Paragon, ended up poisoning himself.
    Tallis: Really?
    Varric: He was terrible at intrigue. Forgot which goblet he'd put the poison in. Wasn't finished gloating to his enemy when he keeled over.
    Varric: I think the family always had a sense for terrible drama. 



(After Tallis' identity is revealed)

    Varric: All right, Shivs, I'll admit it: I'm surprised the Qunari employ thieves. They never struck me as the subtle type.
    Tallis: That's because you've only met the antaam. Armies aren't usually celebrated for their sneakiness. Also, "Shivs?"
    Varric: Yes, "Shivs." So, how does stealing valuables from a pompous Orlesian noble fit in with your Qun?
    Tallis: "The eyes don't own the light, the mouth does not own the breath." Things are just things to the Qun. They belong to everyone.
    Varric: Even the Tome of Koslun? That was worth starting a war over.
    Tallis: The Tome isn't a thing anymore. It's a soul, a purpose. Like Bianca, but with pages. 

     Anders: Is that supposed to be Andraste's face on your crotch?
    Sebastian: What?
    Anders: That... belt buckle thing. Is that Andraste?
    Sebastian: My father had this armor commissioned when I took my vows as a brother.
    Anders: I'm just not sure I'd want the Maker seeing me shove His bride's head between my legs every morning. 



    Anders: So, you were invested as a brother in the chantry, right?
    Sebastian: I had just taken my vows when I learned my family was killed.
    Anders: But you... gave sermons and took confessions and such, right?
    Sebastian: Do you have something you wish to confess?
    Anders: I just want to know, what do you say when people have questions?
    Anders: What's your answer when someone asks, "so if Andraste preached freedom and ended slavery, why do you lock up mages and keep them as slaves?"
    Sebastian: No one ever asked that. 



    Sebastian: You seem very angry.
    Anders: And here I thought the Chantry was against mind reading.
    Sebastian: Did something happen to you in the Circle? I understand there were problems in Ferelden...
    Anders: Are you saying a mage can only be unhappy in the Circle if demons were involved?
    Anders: No, it's not about Uldred. It's not about being beaten or raped by a templar that does happen, but I've been fortunate.
    Anders: It' s a larger principle: the freedom every man, woman, and child born in Thedas have as a natural right.
    Sebastian: You were given to the Circle. I was given to the Chantry. Hawke was driven away from home by the Darkspawn.
    Sebastian: None of us are free. 



(If you complete Dissent)

    Sebastian: So your "Tranquil Solution" was hardly the holocaust you imagined.
    Anders: You've been seeking revenge for the death of one family for as long as I've known you.
    Anders: Are you honestly judging me for trying to save the lives of every mage in Thedas?
    Sebastian: But they were never threatened. It was a single man's lunacy.
    Sebastian: The Chantry would never follow through with such a thing.
    Anders: Yet. 



Act 3

    Anders: How can you keep standing up for her?
    Sebastian: Who?
    Anders: That doddering old biddy of a Grand Cleric.
    Sebastian: How dare you! Elthina is everything a grand cleric should be. She's holy, wise
    Anders: Spineless... hesitant. She's clay in Meredith's hands.
    Sebastian: In the face of danger, sometimes the bravest thing is to stand back and trust that the Maker will see justice done.
    Anders: Well if doing nothing sums up your religion, then Elthina is perfect. Personally, I'd prefer a Chantry that favors action over sloth. 



    Sebastian: You've made no secret of your intent to lead the mages here in revolution.
    Anders: Well, I've tried not to shout it from the rooftops. You've just been around when I talk with my friends.
    Sebastian: Well, as we have mutual friendswho for some reason don't want you to get hurtlet me tell you this:
    Sebastian: If you go forward with this revolt, the Chantry will bring its full might to bear. They will kill you.
    Anders: Andraste was killed. That doesn't mean she failed.
    Sebastian: Do not compare yourself to Andraste. 



    Anders: Go ahead. Say it.
    Sebastian: Say what?
    Anders: I saw you watching me.
    Sebastian: I was looking at the clouds.
    Anders: Don't give me that. I know you've been judging me.
    Anders: You think I'm out of control. How can I claim to speak for mages when I'm half demon myself?
    Sebastian: The one over there looks a bit like a bunny rabbit. 

(If Merrill is in the party)

    Merrill: I saw that too! 



    Anders: How can you have so much faith? Does nothing bother you?
    Sebastian: You're bothering me.
    Anders: The Maker left us to our own devices generations ago.
    Anders: He's never going to step back in, start listening to our prayers again. He's gone.
    Anders: Doesn't that bother you?
    Sebastian: He's a merciful lord. He could have destroyed our world when we failed Him, but instead He gave us a chance at redemption.
    Sebastian: Should we not be joyful? 

Sebastian and Aveline Edit

Act 2

    Sebastian: I understand you are of noble birth.
    Aveline: My father was a chevalier. He had to flee Orlais when his patron was murdered.
    Sebastian: I'm sorry.
    Aveline: I wouldn't have been suited for the life of an Orlesian noblewoman, anyway.
    Sebastian: But surely you wish it had been different? To be a lady of Orlais and not a... city guardsman?
    Aveline: Not for one moment.
    Aveline: I'd rather kill a bandit and save a merchant's family than know the correct dance steps and which rouge is in fashion. 



    Sebastian: I hope this wasn't presumptuous, but I added your husband's name to the memorial wall in the Chantry.
    Aveline: Wesley? But... you never knew him.
    Sebastian: He was a templar. He refused to abandon the people of Ferelden to the Blight. He died too young.
    Sebastian: The grand cleric will read his name during the Chant of Remembrance.
    Aveline: Thank you. That is... very kind.
    Sebastian: He walks with the Maker. But it is no shame for those left behind to mourn. 



    Aveline: So you're a prince, are you?
    Sebastian: That is apparently true.
    Aveline: There's doubt?
    Sebastian: I've accepted the burden. That's all that matters. Why do you ask, Guard Captain?
    Aveline: The entitled types are always trouble.
    Sebastian: In that case, I'm glad I don't count myself as one.
    Aveline: They never do. 



    Sebastian: You don't like me, Guard Captain?
    Aveline: I've no issue, so long as the fight over your title remains in Starkhaven. Exactly like it hasn't.
    Sebastian: Should I apologize for trying to take back what is rightfully mine?
    Aveline: Whatever it takes? No matter the cost?
    Sebastian: It feels like your're blaming me for some personal experience of yours.
    Aveline: I was at Ostagar. Good people die when leaders "do whatever it takes."
    Sebastian: Good people know the necessity. 



(Once you complete Repentance)

    Sebastian: What have I done now? You look like you wish to scold me.
    Aveline: I just can't fathom why you're still in Kirkwall.
    Aveline: For six years you've been claiming you'll retake your parent's lands.
    Aveline: You're smart, you'd be a capable ruler. What are you waiting for?
    Sebastian: I don't know if it's the right thing to do.
    Aveline: Do we ever get to know that? 



(Once you complete Repentance)

    Aveline: Has Starkhaven called for it's lost prince, Sebastian? Would you give up if the city has moved on?
    Sebastian: Like Ferelden "moved on" after Cailan?
    Aveline: You've been reading. 

(If Alistair was made king)

    Sebastian: It's a good tale. King Alistair is particularly inspiring. But I doubt that's how you see me. 

(Otherwise)

    Sebastian: It's a good tale. I'm inspired by the Warden Alistair. But I doubt that's how you see me. 

(If on rivalry path)

    Sebastian: I'm no tyrant, Aveline. If people die restoring my place, they will do so with full knowing. If that doesn't satisfy, so be it.
    Aveline: After your actions here, no it doesn't. 

(If on friendship path)

    Sebastian: I don't intend to let anyone die restoring me to my place, Aveline. The risks are mine. And that will have to satisfy.
    Aveline: It was well said, I give you that. We'll see. 



Act 3

    Aveline: Are you loyal, Prince?
    Sebastian: Guard Captain?
    Aveline: To Kirkwall. Are you loyal?
    Aveline: You're set on a title in Starkhaven, but we're having a crisis here.
    Sebastian: This isn't just Kirkwall's concern. If this chaos spreads, Starkhaven will need a strong ruler to beat back the tide.
    Aveline: I've seen greater men than you use that excuse.
    Sebastian: Noted and ignored, Captain. 



    Sebastian: Do you have many dealings with the knight commander?
    Aveline: Please don't start with that. I'm not a templar. I'm the captain of the guard.
    Aveline: We arrest burglars. The knight commander never gives us a thought.
    Sebastian: Grand Cleric Elthina is worried about her. She's stopped taking the Chantry's advice.
    Aveline: Her jobs not easy. Certain... forces in the city are allied against her. 

(If Anders is in the party)

    Anders: Don't try to be subtle. I'm right here.
    Sebastian: Clearly, our templars need strong leaders.
    Aveline: Until something changes, that's Meredith. And we must give her any support we are able. 

Sebastian and Fenris Edit

Act 2

    Sebastian: Are you an Andrastian, Fenris?
    Fenris: If I say no, will you attempt to convert me?
    Sebastian: Many elves believe in the Maker. I ask only because I wonder if your experiences... soured your faith.
    Fenris: My faith was never strong. It's difficult for a slave to have faith in someone who abandoned them.
    Sebastian: The Maker didn't enslave you, Fenris.
    Fenris: He didn't help me much, either.
    Sebastian: And yet you stand here, free. Perhaps He helped you more than you think. 



    Fenris: The Maker didn't free me.
    Sebastian: I see you've been thinking about what I said.
    Fenris: I freed myself. If the Maker did anything, He watched. Why should I thank Him for that?
    Sebastian: Is it so hard to believe the Maker cares for you? Maybe He gave you the chance to escape.
    Fenris: It doesn't feel like the Maker cares for me... or anyone.
    Sebastian: We all make our own choices, to do good as well as evil. That is our doing, not the Maker's.
    Fenris: Perhaps. It's... been a long time since I gave it any thought.
    Sebastian: It's not too late to start. 



    Sebastian: Were you ever dedicated in the faith of the chantry?
    Fenris: I have no memory of my childhood.
    Fenris: Danarius had no desire to teach his slaves anything that made them think they're worthy beings.
    Sebastian: I'm sorry. I can't imagine how difficult your life has been.
    Fenris: No, you can't.
    Sebastian: Whether you were taught it or not, the Maker has room at His side for every soul. Even yours. 



    Sebastian: You know, when I return to Starkhaven you're welcome to come with me.
    Fenris: And do what, exactly?
    Sebastian: You're a fine warrior. If you could train men to fight like you do, we'd be unstoppable.
    Fenris: I'm no leader, and I doubt humans would want me training them.
    Sebastian: Then why not train elves? I bet there's plenty who would admire all you've accomplished.
    Fenris: I... haven't accomplished anything.
    Sebastian: No? You are your own man, living as you see fityou give yourself too little credit.
    Fenris: You are being kind.
    Sebastian: Not at all. Think about it. 



(Once you complete Repentance)

    Sebastian: You know, Fenris, as a brother in the Chantry, I'm allowed to hear confessions.
    Fenris: Why would you tell me this?
    Sebastian: I know Danarius made you do things. I thought you might be more comfortable talking to a friend.
    Sebastian: You should know, a murder committed under duress is a sin on the one who ordered it, not the one whose hands carried out the deed.
    Fenris: Have I not spoken enough of my past? Does everyone in Kirkwall wish to hear every sordid detail? 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: I know I do.
    Sebastian: Sometimes, it's painful to speak. But it's the only way the wound can be lanced. 



Act 3

    Sebastian: I saw you at the Chantry last week, Fenris, but I haven't seen you back since.
    Fenris: I was only delivering something: you needn't concern yourself.
    Sebastian: But you were praying. Or was that part of the delivery?
    Fenris: I was... trying to blend in.
    Sebastian: (Laughs) Oh, yes! You wouldn't want to ruin your reputation.
    Fenris: Don't you have a city to re conquer? 



    Fenris: Terrible things do happen, Sebastian.
    Sebastian: But what we see is only a piece of the puzzle. Only the Maker can see the greater picture.
    Fenris: The guilty prosper. Innocents die.
    Sebastian: And then they are brought to the side of the Maker. Their suffering ends. There is always a greater purpose.
    Fenris: Danarius once killed a little boy to fuel blood magic that let him impress his fellow Senators at a party. What was the purpose there?
    Sebastian: Perhaps it was witnessing that which will give you the strength to prevent it ever happening again. 



    Sebastian: It's our duty to tell the templars.
    Fenris: Then why haven't you done it?
    Sebastian: I guess I was hoping they'd come to it on their own.
    Fenris: And then you wouldn't have to betray Hawke's friends, right?
    Sebastian: That's not reason enough to allow a maleficar to walk free. 

(If Anders is in the party)

    Anders: You think the templars don't know I'm here? They just haven't caught me yet. 

(If Merrill is in the party)

    Merrill: Are you talking about me? 

    Sebastian: Which of us should do it? Shall we draw lots?
    Fenris: Uh uh. You want to turn them in, you work it out with Hawke. 



(If Faith has been completed)

    Fenris: So that's it? You're not returning to Starkhaven now?
    Sebastian: There are greater things that need to be done, Fenris.
    Fenris: And what about avenging your family? Does that not need to be done?
    Sebastian: What has my vengeance accomplished except to spill more blood?
    Sebastian: No, I must put my faith in the Maker. He will set my path before me.
    Fenris: I can't decide if it is certainty you have, or blindness.
    Sebastian: (Chuckles) At least you can't decide. 

Sebastian and Isabela Edit

Act 2

    Sebastian: Is this getting you any closer to your ship?
    Isabela: Huh?
    Sebastian: I just... don't understand why you're working with Hawke. You don't seem to care about anything we do.
    Sebastian: What's keeping you here? 

(If Hawke and Isabela have slept together)

    Isabela: Mostly the sex. Hawke is an absolute tiger between the sheets. I mean all night, every night.
    Isabela: Oh cute! You're blushing. 

(If not)

    Isabela: Mostly the Blooming Rose. I'm paid up through the end of the year. I'd hate not to use it.
    Sebastian: The... brothel?
    Isabela: What? Women can't go to brothels, too? You're just not using your imagination.
    Isabela: Oh, look! Now you are. You're cute when you're blushing. 



    Sebastian: I notice you talk about... vulgar things quite a bit.
    Isabela: Do you want me to stop? Do I make you... uncomfortable?
    Sebastian: It was just an observation, really.
    Isabela: It's a bad habit I picked up, spending years with foul mouthed pirates.
    Isabela: Pirates only care about a small number of very specific things: the sea, strong drink, and booty. Both kinds. 



    Sebastian: I used to be like you, you know.
    Isabela: You used to be a woman?
    Sebastian: No!
    Isabela: That explains a lot.
    Sebastian: My family put me in the Chantry because I was giving them a bad name.
    Sebastian: It was the best thing that ever happened to me. I found peace. I found a purpose.
    Sebastian: Before I came here, I used to be out to all hours, drinking and whoring. I didn't believe in anything except my own pleasure.
    Isabela: Why couldn't I have met you then? 



    Isabela: All right, let's just get this over with.
    Sebastian: A duel?
    Isabela: No, the sermon. The finger wagging, the guilt trips, telling me how an unexamined life isn't worth living.
    Sebastian: I wasn't going to
    Isabela: You weren't? You weren't going to tell me to comfort the needy and give freely of myself?
    Sebastian: From what I hear, you already give yourself quite freely.
    Isabela: Ooh. You got me there. 



Act 3

    Sebastian: That was very brave, coming back to face the Qunari.
    Isabela: It was idiotic. They would have killed me.
    Sebastian: And you returned anyway. You couldn't face the thought of so many innocents dying for something you could prevent.
    Isabela: Tell that to the viscount.
    Sebastian: It's frightening, isn't it, to realize you have the potential to be a better person? 



    Sebastian: You've been watching me all day. It's getting a little... distracting.
    Isabela: Merrill's right. Your armor is shiny. I can see myself in it. Look!
    Isabela: Shit. Oh, shit. Is that a wrinkle? Is that a wrinkle between my brows?
    Sebastian: Um. I don't see
    Isabela: Hold still! 



    Isabela: So, I've never understood why the Chantry says if you're good, you'll be taken up to the Maker's side.
    Sebastian: Those who die with the sins cleansed from their souls will walk beside the Maker in eternity.
    Isabela: That doesn't sound fun!
    Isabela: If they really want people to be good, shouldn't they offer an afterlife with... lakes of wine and a dozen naked virgins?
    Sebastian: Anyone who wants that will be going to the Void.
    Isabela: Sounds like that's where all the good parties will be. 



    Isabela: It's been years, and not once have you tried to get me to repent or turn to the Maker.
    Sebastian: Preaching seldom works, Isabela. To change a person's heart, one has to lead by example.
    Isabela: Huh. That makes sense. I can respect that.
    Sebastian: I grew weary of the strings of nameless lovers and the nights full of mindless pleasure. You will, too.
    Isabela: (Gasps) That's the cruelest thing anyone's ever said to me!
    Isabela: I think I'm going to cry. 

Sebastian and Merrill Edit

Act 2

    Sebastian: Have you heard the Chant of Light?
    Merrill: That's the song they sing at the Chantry, right? It's pretty... but a little repetitive.
    Sebastian: Then you know the story? How Andraste became the Maker's divine bride and convinced Him to offer us a second chance?
    Merrill: Right. But I never understood why she had to die.
    Sebastian: Her mortal husband betrayed her out of jealousy.
    Merrill: But if He wanted her to spread her faith, couldn't she do that better alive?
    Sebastian: The Maker gave us free will. By his betrayal, Maferath showed us that men were not yet worth saving.
    Merrill: I don't know. It's a nice story, but I think it's got some holes. 



    Merrill: Your armor is very shiny, Sebastian. Doesn't that make you an easier target?
    Sebastian: The Light of the Maker is my armor, Merrill. I am not afraid.
    Merrill: Maybe you could ask Him to make His Light less shiny? Then you wouldn't need as much armor. 



    Merrill: If your city was stolen, why didn't you just call the guards?
    Sebastian: I'm afraid the matter can't be handled by guards, Merrill.
    Merrill: Aveline could help you! She's very good at making thieves give things back. I think it's because she's so tall.
    Sebastian: This is beyond even Aveline's power, I'm sorry to say.
    Merrill: Are you sure? Have you seen her hit people? 

(If Aveline is in the party)

    Aveline: I can hear every word you're saying. 



    Sebastian: So what do you believe, Merrill?
    Merrill: Our gods abandoned us long ago. They haven't answered our prayers since the fall of Arlathan.
    Merrill: When we've proven that we're elves again, that we didn't lose everything, they'll come back to us.
    Sebastian: We say the same of the Maker.
    Sebastian: Perhaps they're only different names for the same divine force that created the world.
    Merrill: The Maker wants you to be elves? 



Act 3

    Merrill: I've always wondered: how do your Divines choose their names?
    Sebastian: They write all the best sacred names on slips of paper and stuff them in a miter.
    Sebastian: Then the newly elected Divine picks a name out of the hat.
    Merrill: What if she picks a name she doesn't like? Does she have to keep it?
    Sebastian: Of course she does. How do you think we got four Divines named Hortensia? 



    Merrill: Does your bow have a name? Varric's bow has a name.
    Sebastian: I'm afraid I can't compete with our dear dwarf's... relationship to his weapon.
    Merrill: You could call it Philomela!
    Sebastian: Why would I do that?
    Merrill: Because it reminds me of a woman in the alienage. Skinny, pointed, and always throwing things at people. 



    Merrill: What does your Chantry do?
    Merrill: I mean, you keep saying how great it is. Anders and Isabela tell me to stay away from it. But what does it do?
    Merrill: Among the Dalish, the Keepers teach the children, preserve our history, perform magic. The priestesses here just... sing.
    Sebastian: The Chantry does many charitable works. It cares for widows and orphans
    Merrill: Who in the Dalish would just be part of the clan, like everyone else.
    Merrill: I just don't get it. 



(After completing A New Path)

    Sebastian: You need to seek atonement.
    Merrill: I know I should've died there, not Marethari. Don't you think I feel guilty enough?
    Sebastian: Guilt isn't a punishment. It's a reminder of the things you haven't set right.
    Sebastian: The only way to shed its burden is to repent with a sincere heart and to rectify your failings.
    Merrill: But how?
    Merrill: The Keeper is dead, my clan lost everything because of me.
    Merrill: There's not enough I can do in this lifetime to make up for that.
    Sebastian: It was your pride that led you to the demon. Admitting what you can't do is a good first step. 

Sebastian and Varric Edit

Act 2

    Sebastian: It's been very exciting working with Hawke.
    Varric: Are you for real?
    Sebastian:
        (If Hawke is male) It seems like he's involved every time there's a crisis in Kirkwall.
        (If Hawke is female) It seems like she's involved every time something goes wrong in Kirkwall. 
    Sebastian: I've never had so many opportunities to help people!
    Varric: All right. I thought I was getting tired of moody. I take it back.
    Varric: You're making my teeth ache. 



    Varric: So, Choir Boy, this usurper of yours is... twenty feet tall?
    Sebastian: Not even close, no.
    Varric: But he has claws for hands, right?
    Sebastian: Fingers. Perfectly normal ones. If a little fat, perhaps.
    Varric: He eats babies, though. And farts fire.
    Sebastian: You're not serious, I hope.
    Varric: You can't even pretend to be interesting, can you? 



    Sebastian: You must forgive your brother.
    Varric: While you were off playing prince, Bartrand trapped us in the Deep Roads and left us to die.
    Sebastian: When you hold onto anger, it colors everything you do.
    Sebastian: You escaped the Deep Roads. You built a life without your brother. Do you still want him haunting you?
    Varric: Oh, go find some beggars to sing to, will you? 



    Varric: Tell us about Starkhaven, Choir Boy. I'm sure we're all burning with curiosity about your far away land.
    Sebastian: "My far away land?" It's inland Free Marches, not on the moon.
    Varric: And here I was hoping...
    Sebastian: It's a lot like here. But fewer dead people.
    Varric: Well, you don't have Hawke. 



Act 3

    Varric: I've heard rumors about Starkhaven, you know.
    Varric: They say you eat the dead up there. And murder strangers in the street.
    Sebastian: Why do I suspect that when you say you've "heard" rumors, you mean you've invented some?
    Varric: Six of one, half dozen of another. 



    Varric: You know, Choir Boy, I wouldn't normally say this, butthe shiny white armor? It works for you.
    Sebastian: That's uncharacteristically kind of you, Varric.
    Varric: Makes you look like a lacquered pilot whale.
    Sebastian: Ah, now that was much more in character. 



    Sebastian: You know, if you have time, I could give you a few archery pointers.
    Varric: Excuse me?
    Sebastian: Sometimes your shots veer a little left, I thought maybe your cocking ring was off.
    Sebastian: I could take a look if you like.
    Varric: You want to touch Bianca's cocking ring?
    Sebastian: It was just a thought. 



    Varric: So, I've known you for three years now. I give up. You beat me. What is it?
    Varric: You like boys? Sheep? You slept with your sister?
    Sebastian: What are you talking about?
    Varric: What are you hiding? Nobody's this bloody clean.
    Varric: After you leave the chantry you... get drunk at the Hanged Man and walk around in women's clothes? 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: Not that I've seen. Unfortunately.
    Sebastian: I've been honest with you and Hawke.
    Varric: Liar.
    Sebastian: Lying is a sin. 

Legacy Edit
Sebastian and Hawke Edit

    Sebastian: I wish my parents could see me now.
    Sebastian: They always said I had "no sense of the dignity of my station." A disgrace to the Vael name. 

<Location dependent>

    Sebastian: Now, here I am, tracking down dwarven ruffians...
    Sebastian: Now, here I am, traipsing around the Deep Roads like a common soldier... 

(If Hawke has a diplomatic/helpful personality)

    Hawke: I'm sure they'd be proud of you for defending a friend.
    Sebastian: They must be rolling in their graves... 

(If Hawke has a humorous/charming personality)

    Hawke: If you could bring your family back from the dead, that's what you'd want? For them to be disappointed in you?
    Sebastian: (Laughs) How else would I know it's really them? 

(If Hawke has an aggressive/direct personality)

    Hawke: They're dead. Let them go.
    Sebastian: They must be rolling in their graves... 


Sebastian and Anders Edit

    Anders: You really believe that magisters trespassing in the Maker's city made the first darkspawn?
    Sebastian: I suppose you have another theory?
    Anders: The darkspawn live in the Deep Roads. They respond to the call of the Old Gods. Why would we think they have anything to do with humansor the Makerat all?
    Sebastian: Before Tevinter, there were no darkspawn. There are written records. Do you think it's just coincidence they appeared when they did?
    Anders: I don't think it's a coincidence that the people the Chantry blames are the same ones they're trying to oppress.
    Sebastian: I think you're getting it backwards. 



    Sebastian: Do you ever regret leaving the Grey Wardens?
    Anders: Not for a moment.
    Sebastian: But... I come here and see what's festering right beneath our feet, while we do nothing to fight it. You had a chance to face it, elbow deep in the blood and the taint and
    Anders: You make it sound like so much fun. 

Sebastian and Aveline Edit

    Aveline: Are there many darkspawn around Starkhaven?
    Sebastian: No, thankfully.
    Aveline: Then little Grey Warden influence as well.
    Sebastian: You have an issue with the heroes who stopped the Archdemon?
    Aveline: They simply take whatever they need. It's... worrying.
    Sebastian: I'll keep that in mind as I continue to not die of Blight. 



    Sebastian: Does it make you think of Ferelden, being here?
    Aveline: Contrary to Free Marches propaganda, there's more to Ferelden than the Blight.
    Sebastian: It must have been hard, leaving your home under such circumstances. Do you ever think of returning.
    Aveline: That life is gone, and many good people with it. I carry the memory. That's enough. 

(Or)

    Aveline: I have a home here, a family. I treasure Ferelden but.. it's a great place to be from. 

Sebastian and Bethany Edit

(If Bethany is in the Circle)

    Bethany: So, Sebastian... you're a prince.
    Sebastian: That is my lot, Lady Hawke.
    Bethany: (Laughs) I'm a mage. I don't hear "Lady" very often.
    Sebastian: You think there is shame in being in the Circle?
    Bethany: Isn't there?
    Sebastian: You were made as you are. I have yet to see evidence of the Maker's fallibility. I certainly don't see any in you.
    Bethany: I... oh my. 

(If Hawke is male)

    Hawke: (Chuckles) 

(If Hawke is female)

    Bethany: So, Sebastian... you're a prince.
    Sebastian: That is my lot, Lady Hawke.
    Bethany: (Laughs) My sister gets "Lady" a lot more than I do.
    Sebastian: You're no less deserving.
    Bethany: You think so? The templars might not agree.
    Sebastian: You were made as you are. I have yet to see evidence of the Maker's fallibility. I certainly don't see any in you.
    Bethany: I... oh my.
    Hawke: (Chuckles) 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: Phew, no kidding. 

(If Varric is in the party)

    Varric: Choirboy is butter.
    Isabela: He melted mine. 

Note: Isabela's reply to Varric is achieved by using the console on PC, by adding Isabela as a party member.


(If Bethany is a Grey Warden)

    Bethany: So, Sebastian... you're a prince.
    Sebastian: That is my lot, Lady Hawke.
    Bethany: (Laughs) This life is not... supportive of delicate titles.
    Sebastian: To have a second chance, and one with such purpose, it cannot be a curse.
    Bethany: This wasn't my choice. If there's something good or beautiful in any of this, please, enlighten me.
    Sebastian: Well, there's you.
    Bethany: I... oh my.
    Hawke: (Chuckles) 



(If Bethany is a Grey Warden and Hawke is a friendly romance with Sebastian)

    Bethany: So, Sebastian... you're a prince.
    Sebastian: And better, if the Maker and the pure love of your sister carry me to it.
    Bethany: Right, You're "married." 

(If Hawke has a diplomatic/helpful personality)

    Hawke: It was beautiful.
    Bethany: I'm sure it was. I'm sorry I missed it. And everything else. 

(If Hawke has a humorous/charming personality)

    Hawke: I know! Weird, huh?
    Bethany: Ugh. A little... Just... don't screw it up. 

( If Hawke has an aggressive/direct personality)

    Hawke: Jealous?
    Bethany: Oh, just shut it. 



(If Bethany is a Grey Warden and Hawke is a rivalry romance with Sebastian)

    Bethany: So, Sebastian... you're a prince.
    Sebastian: That is my lot, Lady Hawke.
    Bethany: (Laughs) My sister gets "Lady" a lot more than I do.
    Sebastian: You're no less deserving.
    Bethany: You think so? Even with... you know. Warden. 

(If Hawke has a diplomatic/helpful personality)

    Hawke: Bethany?
    Bethany: Yes, sister?
    Hawke: Good to have you back with us. 

(If Hawke has a humorous/charming personality)

    Hawke: Bethany? 

Bethany: Yes, sister?

    Hawke: Nothing. Just interrupting. Mm? 

(If Hawke has an aggressive/direct personality)

    Hawke: Bethany?

Sebastian and Carver Edit

(If Carver is a templar)

    Sebastian: I'm glad that a sword of the Chantry has joined us.
    Carver: Right. Keep it to yourself.
    Sebastian: I'm sorry?
    Carver: You don't understand this life. I didn't. 



(If Carver is a Grey Warden)

    Sebastian: I'm honoured to have a Grey Warden with us.
    Carver: It's unusual, that's for certain.
    Sebastian: Yes, I know the restrictions of your sacrifice, I won't presume to understand it.
    Carver: Thank you. 



(If Carver is a templar and Hawke is in a friendly romance with Sebastian)

    Sebastian: Is something troubling you, brother?
    Carver: I'm not your brother.
    Sebastian: I'm not familiar with Ferelden tradition but I married your sister. I believe that makes us brothers.
    Carver: A "chaste marriage." Some invention of yours, no doubt. 

(If Hawke has a diplomatic/helpful personality)

    Hawke: Carver, please be happy for me.
    Carver: For as long as this is what you want. The day after...
    Sebastian: That day will not come. I am certain. 

(If Hawke has a humorous/charming personality)

    Hawke: Aww. Would you feel better if I slept with him? Because I totally would. Right here. 

Carver: Sister, please!

    Sebastian: Yes, love... rein it in. 

(If Hawke has an aggressive/direct personality)

    Hawke: I'm happy. Play nice with your new brother.
    Carver: If you insist.
    Hawke: I do. 

Sebastian and Fenris Edit

    Sebastian: Does the Tevinter chantry tell the same story of how the darkspawn came to be?
    Fenris: Slaves are not regaled with a Tevinter version of the Chant of Light. If I were to guess, it'd go something like "And lo, the greatest of magisters ventured into the Maker's city. And to reward them for their courage, he created darkspawn as a scourge against their enemies."
    Sebastian: You don't think they take responsibility for their actions?
    Fenris: Responsibility is the only thing magisters don't take. 



    Sebastian: It is said the Tevinter magisters are responsible for the darkspawn.
    Fenris: I believe it.
    Sebastian: The Chant claims that pride was their greatest sin. And now they have infected the world.
    Fenris: Most magisters would consider this a challenge. Invent a sin that is greater yet.
    Hawke:
        (If Hawke has a diplomatic/helpful personality) Another time, gentlemen?
        (If Hawke has a humorous/charming personality) I know some ladies who could help them brainstorm.
        (If Hawke has an aggressive/direct personality) Yes, yes magisters are bad. We get it. 



(Upon reaching the altar)

    Fenris: This is meant for a sacrificial ritual. In ancient Tevinter they were used to appease the old gods. The magisters still place such offerings, though they pretend now that they're for Andraste and the Maker.
    Sebastian: Such superstitions have no place in the Chantry.
    Fenris: Which is why Tevinter left. 

Sebastian and Isabela Edit

    Sebastian: Why the aversion to bows?
    Isabela: A one armed man named Molly once shot me in the shoulder with a bow. It hurt. Now can we drop this?
    Sebastian: I don't understand. You could learn to shoot a bow, if you tried.
    Isabela: (Sighs) You have pretty eyes.
    Sebastian: I suppose the conversation's over, then. 



    Sebastian: You don't look very happy down here.
    Isabela: I'm a pirate, sweetheart. I belong on the open sea, not squished under a thousand tons of rock.
    Sebastian: It's an adventure. Don't pirates like adventures?
    Isabela: Only if they end with a gallon of rum and a new bed to plunder.
    Sebastian: Well, there's treasure here. Pirates like treasure, right?
    Isabela: (Grunts) That's just what we use to keep score. 



    Isabela: And you've all been wondering why I don't wear pants. So much less toxic goo to clean off.
    Sebastian: (Sighs) I should have thought of that.
    Isabela: It's not like I change my clothing every time I go home, like Hawke does. 

Sebastian and Merrill Edit

    Sebastian: What do the Dalish teach about the creation of the darkspawn? I mean the Chant of Light says it was the hubris of magisters trying to compete with the Maker. But you don't believe in the Chant of Light...or the Maker. What do you believe?
    Merrill: Well, we don't get into many details but we're pretty sure it's the humans' fault. 



    Merrill: It's a good thing you're here, Sebastian.
    Sebastian: Oh? Why do you say that?
    Merrill: You're so shiny! Much better than a torch.
    Sebastian: I did swear an oath to carry the Light of the Maker wherever I go. Grand Cleric Elthina will be so proud. 

Sebastian and Varric Edit

    Varric: Choir Boy, what are you doing?
    Sebastian: Nothing! Nothing!
    Varric: Are you trying to peek at my notes?
    Sebastian: I’ve...heard some strange rumors about a “belt buckle of righteousness.”
    Varric: Did you hear about the one about how it foretells the future of your pants, or how it burns its expression into the faces of the sinners?
    Varric: The pants one is my favorite. Has more pathos. 

Mark of the Assassin Edit
Sebastian's remarks Edit

    (When clicked) "Shouldn't we be seeking allies among the nobles here, not the heathen elves?"
    (When clicked during the wyvern hunt) "Last wyvern hunt I was on, my mother caught me sneaking off with the kennelmaster's girl. Took my bow away for a week."
    (When clicked if you leave Tallis) "It's better to stay out of Qunari politics." 

Sebastian and Hawke Edit

    Sebastian: I wonder if there's something we can learn from the Qunari.
    Sebastian: Have you seen how loyal they are? Even the least member has the faith of a dedicated brother. 

(If Hawke is male)

    Hawke:[further explanation needed]
        People like being told what to think. The Chantry is too open minded.
        Maybe you should talk to Tallis. Find out what drew her to the Qun.
        They just do what they're told. 

(If Hawke is female)

    Hawke: Are you leaving me to join the Qun?
    Sebastian: Never. 

    Sebastian: I wonder what it takes to convince so many people that you have all the answers. 



(During Act 2)

    Sebastian: I'm surprised you never took the Amell name.
    Hawke: Why?
    Sebastian:
        (To a female Hawke) Once the viscount accepted you as your grandparents' heir, you could have been Lady Amell.
        (To a male Hawke) The viscount accepted you as your grandparents' legitimate heir. If you took the name, you'd be a lord. 

(If Hawke has a diplomatic/helpful personality)

    Hawke: I'm happy with who I am.
    Sebastian: You're right, then. You wouldn't fit in among the nobility. 

(If Hawke has a humorous/charming personality)

    Hawke: Like I don't have enough people trying to kill me already?
    Sebastian: (Laughs) This isn't Antiva. Not all nobles are targets for assassination.
    Varric: How sheltered are you? 

(Otherwise)

    Hawke: Are you supposed to be proof of this theory?
    Sebastian: Point. 

(If Hawke has an aggressive/direct personality)

    Hawke: I'd rather teach them to respect the name Hawke. 

Sebastian and Anders Edit

    Sebastian: I just want to say that I'm proud of the restraint you showed here.
    Anders: I'm not a monster.
    Anders: I'm not going to turn into a raging abomination every time someone commits a fashion faux pas.
    Sebastian: I meant not taking advantage of a captive audience to proselytize about the fate of mages.
    Sebastian: But the other thing is good, too. 



(If Hawke does not help Tallis)

    Anders: I don't understand Tallis.
    Sebastian: She had an emptiness in her life. For her, the Qun filled it.
    Anders: Don't you hate them?
    Sebastian: The Chantry has failed the elves. If we made them more welcome, they would not have to run.
    Sebastian: Maybe the Qunari will force us to better bring word of the Maker's compassion to our own people. 



(While trying to find Hawke and Tallis)

    Sebastian: Andraste, Lady of Sorrows, lead us from the darkness into the Maker's Light...
    Anders: Would you stop that? Andraste is not going to find Hawke for us!
    Sebastian: Have some faith Anders.
    Anders: I have complete faith in your ability to make a bad situation worse! 

Sebastian and Aveline Edit

    Sebastian: This must be refreshing for you.
    Sebastian: I imagine it gets tiresome having to spend all your time dealing with thieves and drunkards.
    Aveline: Nice clothing doesn't make someone less of a thief.
    Aveline: And some of the fops trailing the duke are just as drunk as the crowd in the Hanged Man.
    Sebastian: They do smell better, though. You have to give them that.
    Aveline: I'll leave the comparing of odors to someone else. 



(While looking for Hawke and Tallis)

    Aveline: Ugh! We're back where we started!
    Sebastian: Blessed Andraste, guide us. Protect our friends in this dark hour.
    Aveline: While you're at it, ask the sky for reinforcements. And pie.
    Sebastian: You know, that kind of prayer has never worked for me. 



(After Tallis' identity is revealed)

    Aveline: You and Tallis better not start competing over who can lure the most converts.
    Sebastian: I don't think anyone here is in much danger of converting to the Qun.
    Aveline: But you do see it as a danger.
    Sebastian: If they offer something the Chantry does not, we need to learn what it is. Else we sow the seeds of our own demise.
    Aveline: And it's more threatening when a cute elf gives the pitch instead of a horned giant.
    Sebastian: Absolutely. 

Sebastian and Bethany Edit

(While looking for Hawke and Tallis. )

    Bethany: No, the layout is wrong. We're back where we started.
    Bethany:
        (If Bethany is a Circle mage) It's backwards from every book on Orlais I've seen. It's just not 
        (If Bethany is a Grey Warden) I swear, what I wouldn't give for a straightforward Deep Road... and  

(Bethany stops talking as she looks at him. He smiles and she smiles back. Then he runs off)

    Bethany:
        (If Hawke is romancing Sebastian) Sister, you lucky bitch.
        (Otherwise) Oh, Maker. 

Sebastian and Carver Edit

(While trying to find Hawke and Tallis)

    Carver: And we are back to front yet again.
    Sebastian: Blessed Andraste, guide us. Protect our friends in this dark hour.
    Carver: Right. Prayer. Useful, useful. Or we could do something.
    Sebastian: Guide us by the wisdom of your light... in silence. 

Sebastian and Fenris Edit

    Sebastian: You can't swing a dead cat in Starkhaven without hitting an Orlesian.
    Fenris: Truly? Starkhaven seems like a long way for them to go.
    Sebastian: The Minanter River flows across half of Thedas. Orlesian merchants bob in it like apples.
    Fenris: I like apples.
    Sebastian: Yes, well, these apples will buy your sister, eat your house, and woo your chickens. 



(While trying to find Hawke and Tallis)

    Fenris: Maybe you should start praying that we'll find them.
    Sebastian: I have been for the last half an hour. I could do so out loud, if you'd prefer.
    Sebastian: Blessed Andraste, Bride of the Maker, deliver us from this warren of evil.
    Fenris: In that case, maybe you should stop. 

Sebastian and Isabela Edit

    Sebastian: It was nice to see you in the Chantry, listening to Sister Etheline's testimony.
    Sebastian: I was surprised, but very glad.
    Isabela: I was surprised as well, and not quite as glad.
    Sebastian: Oh? Sister Etheline's words always inspire me. Was it not so for you?
    Isabela: You didn't notice I was bound, gagged, and had a contusion on my forehead?
    Sebastian: What?
    Isabela: Just... don't ask for the "bad girl special" at the Blooming Rose. 



    Isabela: My husband used to have hunting parties like this.
    Sebastian: I'd forgotten you were married.
    Sebastian: It's hard to picture you playing the hostess, taking cloaks and kissing babies.
    Isabela: No, there were servants for that. I just had to sit there and look pretty.
    Isabela: If I got out of hand, he would lock me away with a bottle of wine and a dirty book.
    Isabela: Told everyone I was indisposed.
    Sebastian: My parents used to do the same thing! Minus the wine. And the, uh, dirty book. 



(While looking for Hawke and Tallis)

    Isabela: Eenie, meenie, miney, moe...
    Sebastian: I'm not sure that's the best way to find them.
    Isabela: We already tried "pray for Andraste to guide us" and "wander like drunken vagrants."
    Isabela: We are running out of options.
    Isabela: Unless you want to find a chicken for an augury, we're going with counting games. 

Sebastian and Merrill Edit

    Sebastian: You know, people generally wear shoes to this sort of affair.
    Merrill: Really? What a strange custom.
    Merrill: Among the Dalish, it is a mortal insult to cover your toenails in the presence of a superior.
    Sebastian: You're kidding.
    Merrill: (Hums)
    Sebastian: She's kidding, right? 



    Merrill: I'm so nervous! What if I do something wrong and embarrass us? I always do something wrong.
    Sebastian: You'll be fine, Merrill.
    Merrill: But I don't know anything about human manners! What if I use the wrong fork? And then accidentally stab someone with it.
    Merrill: That sounds like the sort of thing that would happen to me.
    Sebastian: Just act annoyed that they bled on your dress. Nobody will even notice. 



(While looking for Hawke and Tallis)

    Merrill: I... think we've been through here before.
    Sebastian: Now that you mention it, we have seen that chipped cornice a few times, haven't we?
    Merrill: All right, don't panic! Every other time I've gotten very lost, Hawke has found me.
    Sebastian: Uh, Merrill? I don't think she can rescue us before we rescue her. 

     Anders: So, when you first did blood magic, it was... just an accident, right?
    Anders: You cut yourself and realized the power? You didn't actually deal with a demon?
    Merrill: Oh, no. I did.
    Anders: Why would you do that?
    Merrill: I needed his help. He was really very nice about it.
    Anders: Of course he was! He's using you to get a foothold in a mortal brain!
    Merrill: He's a spirit. He offered me his aid. I hardly think you're one to criticize. 



    Merrill: I heard Varric saying you were a Grey Warden.
    Anders: I was.
    Merrill: I met a warden once. Back in Ferelden. Duncan, I think his name was. Very odd man.
    Merrill: He had a marvelous beard, though. I'd never seen one before. I thought a squirrel had grabbed him by the chin. 



(If the Hero of Ferelden was Dalish)

    Merrill: I heard Varric saying you were a Grey Warden.
    Anders: I was.
    Merrill: Did you... did you ever meet a Dalish Warden? Mahariel?
    Anders: As a matter of fact, I did.
    Anders: Do you know her/him?
    Merrill: We grew up together. S/He was one of my clan.
    Merrill: I keep hoping to hear some news...
    Anders: I wouldn't get your hopes up. The Hero of Ferelden values privacy rather highly. 



(If the Hero of Ferelden was Dalish, but died killing the Archdemon)

    Merrill: I heard Varric saying you were a Grey Warden.
    Anders: I was.
    Merrill: Did you... did you ever meet a Dalish Warden? Mahariel?
    Anders: No. I had a friend who did, though. Told the most impossible stories.
    Merrill: I'd like to hear them, sometime. If you don't mind. 

In all likelihood, the friend Anders is referring to is Oghren



    Merrill: Ser Pounce a lot... who knighted him?
    Anders: Is that a serious question?
    Merrill: Did he have a little sword, or just his claws? I bet he had a dashing cap with a feather in it!
    Anders: Would you stop making fun of my cat?
    Merrill: Oh... no hat, then? 



    Anders: Maybe you don't really understand the difference between spirits and demons.
    Merrill: Did I ask you?
    Anders: Spirits were the first children of the Maker, but He turned his back on them to dote on His mortal creations.
    Anders: The ones who resented this became demons, driven to take everything mortals had and gain back the Maker's favor.
    Merrill: Your "Maker" is a story you humans use to explain the world.
    Merrill: We have our own stories. I don't need to borrow yours. 



Act 2

    Merrill: You could get another cat, you know. There's one in the Lowtown market with a litter of kittens ready to wean.
    Anders: You don't pay attention to templars, Qunari or politics, but you notice kittens?
    Merrill: Templars, Qunari, and politics don't meow and attack your feet when you're buying food.
    Anders: Are there any tabbies? I'd like a tabby. 



    Anders: Do Dalish honestly not recognize the difference between demons and beneficial spirits?
    Merrill: We've never thought of the Fade as the home of our gods.
    Merrill: It is another realm, another people's home. No different or more foreign than, say, Orzammar. 

(If Varric is in the party)

    Varric: You can say that again.
    Anders: But have you never studied the types of demons? They break down very clearly into different sins
    Merrill: Spirits differ from each other, just as you and Hawke and Isabela are all human.
    Merrill: More or less... 



(If you complete Dissent)

    Merrill: Are you all right?
    Anders: I nearly killed an innocent girl. How could I be all right?, there is no definition of alright that fits this state.
    Merrill: I'm sorry.
    Anders: You're sorry? For me? This could be you! You could be the next monster threatening helpless girls!
    Merrill: Anders... There's no such thing as a good spirit. There never was.
    Merrill: All spirits are dangerous. I understood that. I'm sorry that you didn't. 



(If you complete Dissent)

    Anders: It's not a good feeling, you know.
    Merrill: What?
    Anders: Being an abomination. I just got a taste of your future.
    Merrill: I'm not that foolish. Our relationship is, um, strictly platonic.
    Anders: It's like you're trapped in your own body, seeing out your eyes, while someone else moves you like a puppet.
    Anders: And you're trying to scream, to move a single muscle, but there's no escape. Until you look down at the blood on your hands...
    Merrill: Stop it. You're scaring me.
    Anders: That's the point. 



Act 3

    Anders: You must join us. Do you see that now? You must stand with Kirkwall's mages.
    Merrill: It's not my fight.
    Anders: You can't hide in Sundermount. 

(If the Dalish were killed during A New Path)

    Anders: Your clan is dead. 

(Otherwise)

    Anders: There is no place for you among the Dalish.
    Merrill: No! My clan is all I ever cared about! Everything I did, I did for them!
    Anders: On second thought, maybe don't try to help us. 



    Merrill: Have I ever mentioned I like your coat?
    Anders: You do?
    Merrill: It's very lively! Like a crow in the middle of anting!
    Anders: That's...that's great. Thanks, Merrill. 

(If Varric is in the party)

    Varric: I tried to warn you, Blondie.
    Anders: You're not helping. 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: I wouldn't have called them "lively." Bedraggled, maybe. Or just...fluffy.
    Anders: You're not helping. 



    Merrill: You really believe don't you?
    Anders: What are you talking about?
    Merrill: Believing. You do, I can tell, in freedom, in mages, in good spirits and bad templars. With more fire than the sun.
    Anders: And your point is?
    Merrill: I miss it sometimes, things being certain.
    Anders: Some things are certain.
    Merrill: Not anymore. 



    Merrill: Be careful what you believe in. A lot of things burn in that fire.
    Anders: Burning isn't necessarily bad. Fire can cleanse.
    Merrill: I don't think people are cleansed by fire. I used to believe in things, too. Now, I think maybe it's better just to believe in people.
    Anders: People make mistakes.
    Merrill: That's why they need you to believe in them. If you never made mistakes, it wouldn't matter if you believed. 



(During A New Path)

    Anders: I don't know why I'm bothering with this, but you do realize it is crazy, right?
    Merrill: Believe me I noticed, if I had any other choices, I'd take them.
    Anders: You have choices! You always had choices! Stop using blood magic. Get rid of that damned mirror.
    Merrill: Oh in that case, I will head back to Kirkwall and throw it away, right after you abandon the plight of the circle of mages. 



(If you complete A New Path)

    Anders: Your Keeper did not deserve that death.
    Merrill: It was my risk to take! I never asked her to do this for me.
    Anders: She knew you didn't have the strength to resist the demon. That's why it picked you.
    Merrill: Why are you doing this? What can I do about it now?
    Anders: Make up for your mistakes. Most blood mages never get a second chance. 



(If Hawke romanced Merrill but also slept with Isabela)

    Anders: Hawke was a fool to let you move in. You'll only betray him/her. That's all your kind can do.
    Merrill: Why do you only do this to me? Are you jealous? You don't get upset about Hawke and Isabela.
    Anders: You can't really get jealous of someone for sleeping with Isabela. It's just...understood.
    Anders: She's like a side dish. She comes with the meal. 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: Only if it's a good meal. 



(If Hawke romanced Anders)

    Merrill: Are you happy?
    Anders: Beg your pardon?
    Merrill: S/He seems happy. Hawke, I mean. Are you?
    Anders: Yes, I suppose I am.
    Merrill: Good! You've spent much too much time being grumpy. It's a nice change. 



(During Justice (Quest) if Hawke has romanced Merrill)

    Anders: I know it isn't my place to criticize, but... are you sure about Merrill? She acts sweet, but she'll never choose you over her demon.
    Hawke: Merrill loves me. 

(If Merrill is in the party)

    Merrill: What right to you have to question us? Is your Justice any different?
    Anders: Yes. Keep your illusions then. Maker knows I won't be the one to change them. 

(Or)

    Hawke: You're right. It isn't your place. 

Merrill and Aveline Edit

Act 1

    Merrill: You must really like the Hawke family.
    Aveline: Why do you say that?
    Merrill: You came all the way from Lothering with them, didn't you? And they're not even your clan.
    Aveline: Humans don't have clans, Merrill.
    Merrill: Exactly! You came so far together, and you didn't even have a Keeper to make you get along.
    Aveline: So your Keeper tells you to stop kicking each other, or she'll turn the aravel around?
    Merrill: Sometimes she also warns us to stop pulling hair. 



    Merrill: I would like to know more about being a guard, Aveline.
    Aveline: I don't think that's the job for you.
    Merrill: I know, but it might help me not get caught.
    Aveline: You probably shouldn't have said that part.
    Merrill: Why?
    Aveline: Just... never mind. 



    Merrill: Did Lothering have an alienage?
    Aveline: It wasn't a big enough village to have a wall around it, let alone a place for elves.
    Merrill: Where did the elves live, then?
    Aveline: Stables and outbuildings, mostly.
    Merrill: I think I like alienages better. 



    Merrill: Why don't you arrest us, Aveline?
    Aveline: What?
    Merrill: We break the law. I'm pretty sure. There are laws for almost everything. You're not a bad guard, are you?
    Aveline: No! 

(If on a friendship path with Merrill)

    Merrill: That's good. Is it because you're fond of Hawke? I kind of am.
    Aveline: How very nice for you. Keep it to yourself.
    Merrill: I'd rather keep it with her/him. 

(If on a rivalry path with Merrill)

    Merrill: That's good. You look uncomfortable. Did I say something wrong again?
    Aveline: No, Merrill, that's fine.
    Merrill: Ah, maybe it's your shoes. 



Act 2

    Aveline: You're incredibly talented, Merrill. I can see you are meant for great things.
    Merrill: Thank you!
    Aveline: But... You're stupid.
    Merrill: I'm sorry, what?
    Aveline: Don't you think it would be better to work on where you are now, instead of recreating old glory?
    Merrill: No. No, that's kind of the opposite of what I've been saying. I'm the stupid one? Whatever. 



    Merrill: The Qunari must like it here, to stay so long.
    Aveline: From what I've seen, the Qunari don't like anything.
    Merrill: That can't be true. They must like some things... Sunshine? Butterflies? Rainbows?
    Aveline: If I spot a Qunari admiring butterflies, Merrill, you'll be the first person I tell. 



(After completing The Long Road)

    Merrill: (Giggles)
    Aveline: Yes?
    Merrill: Is it like you thought? It's nice, isn't it? He seems nice.
    Aveline: Yes, he's very nice.
    Merrill: I know! And you're so cute when you're with him! Not like normal you at all!
    Aveline: Haven't you got something unholy to do?
    Merrill: No, we're following Hawke. That's important, too. 



(If you complete Mirror Image)

    Aveline: This mirror of yours  what does it do?
    Merrill: Mostly it stands in my house, looking a bit spooky.
    Aveline: But its magic, right? So it can do... Magic things? Is it dangerous?
    Merrill: It could fall on someone, but you'd have to push it really hard. It's quite heavy.
    Aveline: Merrill, is it a danger to the people of Kirkwall or not?
    Merrill: Oh! Only to anyone sitting right under it. 



Act 3

    Merrill: Aveline, you'll look after Hawke, won't you?
    Aveline: The champion of Kirkwall doesn't need my protection (Rivarly with Hawke)
    Aveline: Of course I will. What kind of a question is that? (Friendship with Hawke)
    Merrill: And sometimes Isabela gets into awful trouble. You'll watch out for her, too?
    Aveline: Merrill... what brought this on?
    Merrill: Anything could happen. You'll protect them, though. It's what you do.
    Aveline: There's nothing to worry about, Merrill. 



    Merrill: Aveline, what's in your mirror?
    Aveline: What do you mean?
    Merrill: In your mirror. What do you see?
    Aveline: A warrior. A wife. All the mistakes I made to get here and make it right.
    Aveline: Why? What have you decided to see? 

(If after A New Path and Merrill decided to break the Eluvian)

    Merrill: My mirror is broken. But I think... I think I see good things.
    Merrill: Maybe a headband... 

(If after A New Path and Merrill did not break the Eluvian)

    Merrill: Demons. And... cracks. 

(Otherwise)

    Merrill: Sometimes it's hard to tell. Cracks, mostly. 

    Merrill: Maybe I'll borrow yours sometime. If that's all right?
    Aveline: It's all right. 



    Aveline: I didn't expect you to stick around for this mess Merrill. This has nothing to do with your elves. 

(If Hawke is romancing Merrill)

    Merrill: I love Hawke, I wouldn't go anywhere.
    Aveline: But it's not your fight.
    Merrill: I love Hawke.
    Aveline: You said that.
    Merrill: I say it a lot. It makes things clearer, takes away doubt when everything is crazy and people are dying.
    Aveline: I understand.
    Merrill: Oh, good. Someone should. 

(If not romanced)

    Merrill: Everything affects everything. We were born, a bunch of things happened, and now we're in a mess with our friends.
    Aveline: That seems too simple.
    Merrill: Simple is good. It sneaks up on you, makes you smile.
    Merrill: Maybe that should be enough once in a while.
    Aveline: Simple it is. 

(If after A New Path)

    Aveline: That seems too simple.
    Merrill: Simple is good. It sneaks up on you, makes you smile.
    Merrill: Or it says "Hey over there!" And kills with a pin.
    Aveline: Merrill?
    Merrill: Simple Aveline. Not stupid. 



    Merrill: Aveline... do you think we'll win?
    Aveline: Win what?
    Merrill: In the end. It feels like something is ending, doesn't it? Do you think we'll win?
    Aveline: Nothing is ending, Merrill. Things are a little tense, but it will pass.
    Merrill: I hope we win. Varric will make it a good story, I'm sure. 



(During Champions and Captains, if Isabela is not present, and you choose "How was the honeymoon?")

    Hawke: You never said how your three weeks in Orlais went.
    Aveline: You're right. I didn't.
    Merrill: So, how was it? 

(Pause, silence)

    Merrill: Oh! (Laughs) 



(During A New Path)

    Aveline: What should we be prepared for if something goes wrong?
    Merrill: I'm not entirely sure. I've never seen an abomination myself. The keeper said they... warp and change before your eyes.
    Aveline: So you want us to come along and watch for something, but you don't know what?
    Merrill: It's just a precaution, Aveline. Nothing will go wrong.
    Aveline: Oh. That's reassuring. 

Merrill and Bethany Edit

    Bethany: So, there's no Circle among the Dalish?
    Merrill: Any child with the gift of magic is apprenticed to a Keeper... in another clan if there's no need in her own.
    Bethany: That sounds nice.
    Merrill: Magic is a gift of the Creators. Why wouldn't we use it?
    Merrill: It just seems... wasteful for humans to lock their mages away where they can't do any good. 

(If Fenris is in the party)

    Fenris: Of course, you're a blood mage.
    Bethany: Oh. Right. 

(Otherwise)

    Bethany: But... you are a blood mage. 



    Bethany: So, is the Keeper... your mother?
    Merrill: I left my clan when I was a child to become Marethari's First.
    Merrill: I haven't seen my parents in more than ten years.
    Bethany: I'm so sorry! My father died in the Blight. You must really miss them.
    Merrill: I remember my mother singing to me, when I was a little girl and I'd get sick. I think that's what I miss the most.
    Merrill: The Keeper has a terrible singing voice. 



    Merrill: You're so lucky.
    Bethany: How do you figure?
    Merrill: I wish I had a brother/sister and a mother and an uncle.
    Merrill: It must be wonderful. You'd never be alone!
    Bethany: It is wonderful. Although it might be better without Uncle Gamlen. 



    Merrill: If you could do anything   just anything at all   what would you do?
    Bethany: That's easy. Be normal. No magic, just... normal.
    Merrill: Really? You wouldn't fly across Thedas or eat a cake the size of Kirkwall? Keep a baby griffon for a pet?
    Bethany: Well, now that you say it, the griffon might not be so bad.
    Merrill: I'd name mine "Feathers." 

Merrill and Carver Edit

    Carver: So, you're not like a lot of other girls.
    Merrill: No, I'm an elf.
    Carver: Right, alright then.
    Merrill: Oh, did I miss something dirty?
    Carver: What? No! It wasn't dirty. It wasn't anything.
    Merrill: Oh? Right, because I miss a lot of dirty things and sometimes I wouldn't mind hearing them.
    Carver: Would you now? 



    Carver: Your people came a long way Merrill, but I like to think that we have Ferelden in common.
    Merrill: I never saw Lothering. Did you walk as much as we did? Probably more, you didn't start with halla. Our ship stunk.
    Carver: Your ship?
    Merrill: There was something foul in the hold. I can still smell it.
    Carver: Oh, well, that must have been unpleasant.
    Merrill: It was. Did I miss something dirty again?
    Carver: No. 



    Merrill: Do you miss it? Ferelden I mean.
    Carver: Sometimes.
    Merrill: Blackberries. They don't seem to grow here. And there were little song birds with black caps on their heads.
    Carver: I sort of miss the dogs barking.
    Merrill: Yes... It's been mostly humans barking at me here. Not nearly as cute. 



    Merrill: How did you learn swording?
    Carver: "Swording"?
    Merrill: Those things you do with the sword. It looks tricky. Was it hard to learn?
    Carver: It takes a lot of practice.
    Merrill: Well, you seem good at it! I bet one day you'll be best sworder in Kirkwall.
    Carver: Merrill...
    Merrill: I said something wrong again, didn't I? Maybe I'll just stop talking. 

Merrill and Fenris Edit

Act 1

    Merrill: You've probably never met a Dalish before, have you?
    Fenris: I wouldn't know.
    Merrill: I'm sure you'd be able to tell. Dalish aren't much like the elves in the cities.
    Fenris: The smug sense of superiority does give you away. 



    Merrill: Certainly your people have stories about the Dalish. No?
    Fenris: My people?
    Merrill: The elves in Tevinter. They must have heard of us.
    Fenris: They've heard. They just don't care.
    Merrill: But if they ran away, the Dalish would help them.
    Fenris: You might as well say, "If they flew into the sky, they could live in the clouds."
    Merrill: What would they eat in the clouds? There's nothing there but fluff and the occasional bird.
    Fenris: This is why nobody takes the Dalish seriously. 



(After you bring Fenris to the Gallows for the first time)

    Fenris: Why are you watching me like that?
    Merrill: You have vallaslin. The same markings that the Dalish have.
    Fenris: Yours are not made of lyrium.
    Merrill: No, they're made of blood. Our blood. That's what vallaslin means: blood writing. It's a mark of adulthood.
    Fenris: Mine were carved into my flesh against my will, in a ritual I remember only for the agony it caused me.
    Merrill: I'm...so sorry. 



    Fenris: I don't want your pity.
    Merrill: Are you talking to me?
    Fenris: You said you were sorry about the ritual I endured. Keep your sorrow.
    Merrill: I only meant
    Fenris: You have all the freedom none of our kind enjoy, and you throw it away. On what?
    Merrill: Our people need to reclaim their heritage.
    Fenris: A heritage of defeat? To what end?
    Merrill: Would you truly turn your back on your own history? There's so much we don't know...
    Fenris: It's not my history. It's simply history. 



    Fenris: Tampering around in mud all day, how do the Dalish do it?
    Merrill: Do you like the crowded cities better?
    Fenris: It's a smell I'm more familiar with, yes. 



Act 2

    Merrill: You never come to the alienage, Fenris.
    Fenris: I don't live in the alienage.
    Merrill: Don't you care about the plight of our people? Not even a little bit?
    Fenris: I don't need to visit the alienage to know what they suffer. I know it better than you.
    Merrill: I've lived there for years! I see it firsthand!
    Fenris: And I lived it. 



    Merrill: Did you step on something sharp, Fenris?
    Fenris: No.
    Merrill: Slam your fingers in a door?
    Fenris: No.
    Merrill: Smack your head on a low beam?
    Fenris: Is there a point to this line of questioning?
    Merrill: Just wondering why you're so cross all the time. 

(If Varric is in the party)

    Varric: I think he jabs himself with those spikes, personally.
    Fenris: Perhaps it's the inane prodding. 



(During A Bitter Pill, in the Abandoned Slaver Den, when the Blood Sacrifice is examined)

    Fenris: See for yourself. The legacy of the magisters.
    Merrill: They sacrifice the unwilling?
    Fenris: Is that so hard to believe? You are only a step away from it yourself.
    Merrill: That's not true.
    Fenris: Believe what you like. In my experience, mages always find a way to justify their need for power. 



(After you complete A Bitter Pill)

    Fenris: Avert your eyes, witch.
    Merrill: You said I was dwelling on "useless" history, but what are you doing?
    Merrill: The past is important, to you and to all of us. We must know it to move forward.
    Fenris: Yet, I have made no deal with a demon to learn of my past.
    Fenris: You had a life. You had a family. And you abandoned them to chase after ghosts.
    Fenris: We are nothing alike. Don't even begin to think that we are. 



(If you complete Mirror Image)

    Fenris: You are more naive than I thought.
    Merrill: What have I done to you now?
    Fenris: To me? Nothing. Not yet.
    Fenris: To yourselfyou can't even begin to imagine the number of mages that have walked down the path you're now on.
    Merrill: My clan didn't believe in me. If you don't believe in me either, I won't mind. 



(During Mirror Image)

    Merrill: Pol...What was he thinking?...He acted like I was a monster...
    Fenris: You are a monster. 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: You aren't helping.
    Fenris: Good. 



Act 3

    Merrill: Poor Anders.
    Fenris: You pity him? He's dangerous to himself and everyone around him.
    Merrill: I think he's broken the thing he wanted to save.
    Fenris: You pity him because he's you.
    Merrill: Breaking the things you love most isn't restricted to mages, Fenris.
    Fenris: Sadly true. 



    Merrill: Your master must have been a terrible man, to make you hate mages so. 

(If Alone has been completed)

    Fenris: He was, now he's dead. 

(Otherwise)

    Fenris: He is a terrible man. He's not dead.
    Merrill: We're not all like him.
    Fenris: How often I hear that, and yet, how often I find it's not true.
    Merrill: The Keepers are different. They exist to preserve the old ways, and to protect our people.
    Fenris: And none of them would ever fall prey to a demon, or perform blood magic.
    Merrill: It's impossible to talk to you! 



(If Hawke is romancing Fenris)

    Merrill: (Giggles)
    Fenris: What? Why are you looking at me like that?
    Merrill: You're in love!
    Fenris: I am not.
    Merrill: You keep looking at Hawke with sad puppy eyes every time his back is turned. (male Hawke)
    Merrill: Everytime she looks away, you stare at Hawke with those sad puppy eyes. (female Hawke)
    Fenris: There are no puppy eyes.
    Merrill: It's all right, you know. Even you can be happy once in a while. It won't kill you. But your face might crack if you smile, so be careful. 



(If Alone & Questioning Beliefs has been completed)

    Merrill: Do you regret it? What happened with your sister, I mean.
    Fenris: No. 

(If Fenris killed Varania)

    Merrill: You don't feel bad about killing her? Not even a little?
    Fenris: It was necessary. 

(Otherwise)

    Merrill: You don't wish...that maybe you hadn't found her again?
    Fenris: Whatever I wish, it is already done.
    Merrill: You're lucky, then. There are so many things I wish I could undo. 



(If A New Path has been completed)

    Fenris: This...Keeper of yours, she was a friend?
    Merrill: She was like a mother to me. To all of us.
    Fenris: Then I'm sorry.
    Merrill: No, you're not. She's just one more mage to you. Why would you be sorry she's dead?
    Fenris: I'm not sorry she's dead. I'm only sorry she died for you.
    Merrill: What?
    Fenris: Let's hope the sacrifice of someone who cared for you that much isn't wasted. 

Merrill and Isabela Edit

Act 1

    Merrill: How do you do that?
    Isabela: Do what, Kitten?
    Merrill: You sort of... swagger when you walk. I've been trying, but I trip over my own feet when I do it.
    Isabela: You just strut. It's not something you practice.
    Merrill: How do I learn it, then?
    Isabela: It comes to you. Usually at night. It's like a lover... or maybe a burglar.
    Isabela: Either it ravishes you or runs off with all your jewelry. And you have to run it down and stab it in the heart.
    Isabela: And... that metaphor got a bit away from me, didn't it?
    Merrill: I think it did, but it was certainly exciting! 



    Merrill: Do you really like sailing?
    Isabela: Like it? I love it! The salt spray on my face, the wind whipping by my ears, the gulls screaming overheadI love it all.
    Merrill: Don't you get sick? I was so sick on our trip across the sea.
    Isabela: Were you in the hold?
    Merrill: Everyone was in the hold.
    Isabela: There's your problem. You need to be up on deck, under the sky, with nothing between you and the horizon.
    Isabela: Sailing is like sex. Do it wrong, and it'll make you sick.
    Isabela: But do it right, and there's no feeling in the world like it. 



    Merrill: Do you have a parrot, Isabela?
    Isabela: What would I want a parrot for?
    Merrill: What about a peg leg? Do you have one of those?
    Isabela: You can see that I don't, dear.
    Merrill: Eye patch?
    Isabela: I'm disappointing you terribly, aren't I? And no hook for a hand, either.
    Merrill: Seems that Varric's pirate stories are awfully inaccurate.
    Isabela: He knows, Kitten. He likes them better that way. 



    Isabela: It's not always fun and games on the sea, though. There are storms and hostile pirates.
    Isabela: And it's trying being cooped up with men who haven't seen a woman in months.
    Merrill: You're a woman.
    Isabela: Exactly. And I don't usually let them touch me, so they get... frustrated.
    Isabela: I insist all of them get alone time. Helps with the crankiness.
    Merrill: But they're already lonely! Why would you insist that they be alone some more?
    Isabela: Merrill.
    Merrill: What? Did I miss something?
    Isabela: Go think about it. Maybe it'll come to you. 



(While speaking to Jethann in The Blooming Rose during the quest The First Sacrifice)

    Isabela: Ooh, I like him. He reminds me of someone.
    Merrill: He does? Who is it? 

(If Varric is in the party)

    Varric: I'll tell you when you're older, Daisy. 

    Isabela: Think about it, Kitten.
    Merrill: Well, you couldn't have meant Varric, because he's not even an elfoh... Ohh! You were referring to yourself. Sorry!
    Isabela: See? I knew it'd come to you. 



Act 2

    Merrill: (Sighs) Why do you even like me? I must seem so dull.
    Isabela: What brought this on?
    Merrill: Your life has been... so exciting. The adventures, the duels, the passionate love affairs.
    Merrill: Compared to that, my life is a stale, dry biscuit. (Sighs) I wish I had your life.
    Isabela: No. You don't want my life.
    Merrill: Why?
    Isabela: Because you have a good heart, and you deserve better. 



    Merrill: What was Llomerryn like? I've never heard of a Dalish who's been there.
    Isabela: I don't imagine your people travel between islands much.
    Merrill: Not really, no.
    Isabela: I wouldn't start waterproofing your wagons, then. I don't think Llomerryn is ready for the Dalish.
    Merrill: What do you mean? Would we upset the people there?
    Isabela: It's not really the kind of place where one turns down a tumble. Even refuse a fortune teller, and they'd run your lot out of town. 



    Merrill: How do you suppose the Qunari scratch their heads with those horns in the way?
    Isabela: Why do you think I would know?
    Merrill: Because you know lots of things! I wonder if they rub their heads against tree trunks like halla do.
    Isabela: I'd pay a sovereign to see that.
    Merrill: No wonder they seem so cranky all the time. 



    Merrill: You've had many lovers, haven't you?
    Isabela: Fewer than some think.
    Merrill: But you never stay with them.
    Isabela: No, why should I?
    Merrill: But the act of lovemaking is so... intimate.
    Isabela: I don't "make love." What I do is only skin deep, Kitten.
    Isabela: Don't worry your pretty little head about it. 



(If Hawke is romancing Merrill)

    Isabela: You and Hawke... something's there, isn't there?
    Merrill: He's clever, strong, and wonderful. How can anyone not love him?
    Merrill: She's so amazing and beautiful. How could anyone not love her? (if Hawke is female) 

(If Hawke also romanced Isabela:)

    Isabela: How could anyone not?
    Merrill: You're very quiet today. Is something wrong?
    Merrill: (Gasps) It's me. I said something wrong, didn't I?
    Isabela: No, of course not. You could never say anything wrong.
    Isabela: I'm happy for you, Kitten. You've been alone long enough. 

(Otherwise)

    Isabela: Oh, I could give you a list, but that might just bore you.
    Isabela: So... did you get naked?
    Merrill: Isabela!
    Isabela: Ooh, look at that blush. That good, huh? 



Act 3

(If Hawke has accepted Isabela's love)

    Merrill: I think Hawke likes you, Isabela
    Isabela: I certainly hope so!
    Merrill: Of course, it's not surprising at all that anybody would love you, but it's nice to see you two happy.
    Isabela: Merrill, sometimes you're so sweet I could eat you for dessert. 



(If Hawke hasn't accepted her love yet)

    Merrill: I think Hawke likes you, Isabela.
    Isabela: You think so, do you?
    Merrill: S/he looks at you all the time, and then s/he looks embarrassed and pretends s/he's busy with something else.
    Hawke: I can hear you, you know.
    Merrill: (Giggles) See?
    Isabela: Hmm. I'll have to think about that... 



    Merrill: Do you think you'll leave Kirkwall someday? 

(If Hawke has romanced Isabela)

    Isabela: I might if I can persuade the right person to come away with me. 

(If not)

    Isabela: Of course I will! As soon as I get myself a ship, I'm sailing wherever the sea takes me. 

    Merrill: I'll miss you. You'll write to me, won't you? Do pirates write letters?
    Isabela: Badly. Hook hands make for awful pennmanship, Kitten. 



(If No Rest for the Wicked & Questioning Beliefs have been completed and Hawke accepted Isabela's love)

    Merrill: Why are you smiling?
    Isabela: No reason.
    Merrill: Ooh, ooh! It's something dirty, isn't it? Tell me, tell me!
    Isabela: It... it isn't anything dirty. I'm just... happy.
    Merrill: Oh. That's good, too, but I was hoping for something dirty.
    Isabela: Come by the tavern later. I've got stories that will make your toes curl. 

     Hawke: "You haven't exactly thought this out, have you?"
    Isabela: "I haven't exactly worked out all of the kinks. Step one, we find Castillon... step two, I don't know. Something exciting happens. Step three, profit. Any questions?" (Possibly a reference to the South Park episode, "Gnomes") 

In the Blooming Rose, before pretending to hand Isabela over to trick Velasco

    Isabela: Now, this needs to be convincing. And you'll need to get creativecall me names, even hit me.
    Isabela: Stick with it, no matter what I do. Velasco's a clever son of a bitch. If you waver, he'll notice. 

(Diplomatic choice) I'm not sure about this.

    Hawke: I don't know if I can pull this off.
    Isabela: Come on, haven't you ever wanted to slap me? Just a little? 

If other party members present

    Aveline: Absolutely.
    Fenris: Yes.
    Anders: Yes.
    Varric: Yes.
    Merrill: Yes... wait, what are we voting on?
    Sebastian: Is that a trick question?
    Isabela: I wasn't asking you people!
    Varric: Face it. You set yourself up for that one. 

OR (Humorous choice) You seem a little eager.

    Hawke: I'm worried about you. You're enjoying this a little too much.
    Isabela: I am, aren't I? (Giggles) 

OR (Aggressive choice) This will be fun.

    Hawke: I'll make it convincing, not to worry.
    Isabela: Er... now you're making me nervous. 



(If Hawke spent the night with Fenris, speak to her in The Hanged Man)

    Isabela: Speaking of romance... You and Fenris, eh? That taut, controlled body, brooding demeanor and intense gaze... I hear he still wears the shackles from his life in bondage...under his clothes. You know what they say about men like that, don't you?
    Hawke: (Sighs) I'm going to regret asking you to continue, aren't I?
    Isabela: He can't find a saw. (Laughs) I had you there! You thought I was going to say something dirty! (Laughs) 

OR

    Hawke: I haven't seen any shackles. You're just making things up.
    Isabela: Oh. But... I had this joke lined up.
    Isabela: You're no fun. 

OR

    Hawke: Keep it to yourself, Isabela.
    Isabela: You're no fun. 



(If Hawke romanced Merrill, speak to her in The Hanged Man)

    Isabela: Speaking of romance...
    Isabela: You're interested in Merrill, aren't you?
    Hawke: I have feelings for her/I'm that obvious, am I?
    Isabela: Well, that's good. She always seemed a little lonely.
    Isabela: I get the feeling the girl's messing in something big and dangerous.
    Isabela: Look out for her, will you? Make sure she doesn't hurt herself.
    Isabela: Oh, and if you do anything nasty to her, I'll cut off your balls. (male Hawke) 



(If Hawke romanced Anders, speak to her in The Hanged Man)

    Isabela: Speaking of romance...you, Anders, and Justice? That must be exciting! As they say, two's company, but three is better.
    Hawke: I enjoy being with Anders, and that's all I'm going to say about it.
    Isabela: We know about Anders. What about Justice? Does he not get involved?... 

OR

    Hawke: I don't think whoever made that claim had a Fade spirit in mind.
    Isabela: No? You don't like his "spear of righteousness" then?... 

(For diplomatic or humorous choice) Or perhaps he thinks you're too good of a person, and isn't willing to smite you. That would be a shame, wouldn't it? Everyone deserves a good smiting now and then. I could use one right this minute. (Laughs)

OR

    Hawke: Keep your nose out of my affairs.
    Isabela: Oh, fine. Prude. 



(If Hawke has slept with Isabela and let her take the ship:)

    Hawke: "So when do I get the grand tour?"
    Isabela: "Haven't you already   Oh, you mean the ship." 



(When entering the Blooming Rose for the first time)

    Isabela: "The difference between whores and courtesans is...well, they have nicer shoes."
    Hawke: "I don't think anyone's looking at their shoes." 



(After the events of All That Remains and if you romanced Isabela)

    Isabela: "I... uh. I feel I should say... something."
    Hawke: "I know you're not good at... emotional stuff."
    Isabela: "At least your mother loved you. Not everyone can say that."
    Hawke: "Mother was all I had left."
    Isabela: "You don't really think that, do you?"
    Isabela: "Family's not just the people you're related to by blood. There are other people who care about you."
    Isabela: "Like... Aveline." 

Isabela and Anders Edit

Act 1

    Isabela: Hello? Is Anders there? Can I speak to Anders?
    Anders: You can stop yelling. It's always me.
    Isabela: Oh, good. I didn't want to talk to that other guy. You know, the stick in the mud.
    Anders: He can still hear you. Justice and I are one.
    Anders: Anyway, you wanted to talk to me?
    Isabela: Not really. I just wanted to make sure it was you. 



    Anders: I keep thinking I know you from somewhere...
    Isabela: You're Fereldan, right? Ever spend time at the Pearl?
    Anders: That's it!
    Anders: You used to really like that girl with the griffon tattoos, right? What was her name?
    Isabela: The Lay Warden?
    Anders: That's right! I think you were there the night I
    Isabela: Oh! Were you the runaway mage who could do that electricity thing? That was nice...
    Hawke: Please stop talking. Now. 

(Or if Varric is in the party)

    Varric: I don't think I need to know this about either of you. 



    Anders: Isabela, you never talk about the mages' plight.
    Isabela: What's there to say?
    Anders: There's plenty to say.
    Isabela: And you say enough for the lot of us, don't you think?
    Anders: So you're telling me you have no opinion on the matter?
    Isabela: None whatsoever!
    Anders: That can't be true.
    Isabela: No, I'm afraid I'm really this shallow. 



    Anders: Sometimes, I think you have the right idea.
    Isabela: Handcuffs, whipped cream, always be on top?
    Anders: I never used to give two bits what anyone thought of me.
    Anders: Justice once asked me why I didn't do more for other mages. I told him it was too much work.
    Anders: But I couldn't go back after that. Couldn't stop thinking about it.
    Anders: Sometimes, I miss being that selfish.
    Isabela: Huh? Were you talking? I was still at "whipped cream." 



Act 2

    Anders: What makes this relic of yours so valuable?
    Isabela: The same thing that makes anything valuable. Someone's willing to pay for it.
    Anders: That's not evasive.
    Isabela: Look, I didn't get where I am by showing my hand, you know?
    Anders: No, your hand isn't what I hear you've been showing. 



    Anders: Do you ever have any regrets?
    Isabela: About what?
    Anders: Anything? Everything? I can't figure you out.
    Isabela: The past's past. I learned that young. If it can't bring you gold or giggles, what's the point in dwelling on it?
    Anders: Maybe the chance to fix a mistake? Make things right again?
    Isabela: Eh. Our mistakes make us who we are.
    Anders: That was almost profound. 



    Anders: So, this relic you lost... how is it you don't know what it is?
    Isabela: It was in a box.
    Anders: And you didn't open it? You managed to resist the urge?
    Isabela: It was locked. It was a locked box!
    Anders: Hasn't stopped you before.
    Isabela: What do you want me to say?
    Anders: Nothing. I just found it curious, that's all. 



    Anders: You do have an opinion on mages, don't you?
    Isabela: Of course I do. I just don't feel a constant need to bring it up.
    Isabela: (Sighs) Mages don't worry me. And I don't believe the templars when they say I should be worried.
    Isabela: I'm more likely to be shanked in a bar than eaten by an abomination. You can hear those coming a mile away.
    Isabela: "Grr. Argh!" "Oh, is that an abomination coming to eat us? We should get out of here!"
    Anders: Abominations don't go, "Grr. Argh."
    Isabela: They don't? I should rethink the whole thing, then. 



Act 3

    Anders: You're not nearly as selfish as you pretend.
    Isabela: Hey! You take that back!
    Anders: You had your relic. You were gone. There was no reason for you to come back and face the Qunari.
    Isabela: I still don't have a ship. I thought I could get one.
    Anders: From a bunch of shipwrecked Qunari?
    Isabela: From the Viscount. I just got here late.
    Anders: I always knew you had a heart of gold.
    Isabela: Shh! Don't tell anyone. 



    Anders: I don't know how you live the way you do, blithely ignoring the consequences of your actions.
    Isabela: This is about the Qunari thing, isn't it? I'm not ignoring it. I just recognize that it happened years ago.
    Isabela: There's this fantastic thing called "moving on." You should try it sometime.
    Anders: Has it occurred to you that Kirkwall is only just recovering from the Qunari attack?
    Isabela: And you want me to... what? Flog myself daily?
    Isabela: Has it occurred to you that maybe there's no justice in the world? Other than that voice you keep in your head. 



    Anders: There is justice in the world.
    Isabela: Is there? You want to free the mages. Let's say you do, but to get there, you kill a bunch of innocent people.
    Isabela: What about them? Don't they then deserve justice?
    Anders: Yes.
    Isabela: And then what? Where does it end?
    Isabela: It's like a bar brawl. People are continuously pulled into the fray, and nobody remembers why it started.
    Isabela: Justice is an idea. It makes sense in a world of ideas, but not in our world. 



    Anders: I can't believe you're still not taking sides.
    Isabela: I told you, I only like to be on top.
    Anders: I mean against the templars! You like freedom, right? You hate slavery.
    Anders: Why wouldn't you side with the mages?
    Isabela: Maybe I just don't like you. 


Isabela and Aveline Edit

Act 1

    Aveline: So, Isabela. You're a captain?
    Isabela: That's right, big girl. What of it?
    Aveline: I don't remember your name on any registries. Every ship that docks has to declare.
    Isabela: I never docked, and you're no port authority.
    Aveline: And you... are no merchant.
    Isabela: Ooh... scrutiny. 



    Isabela: Do men find you intimidating? What about Wesley? Did he?
    Aveline: Isabela...
    Isabela: What? Too soon?
    Aveline: Too soon, too personal, too... everything coming from you!
    Isabela: Ooh, sore spot?
    Aveline: If you don't shut up, I'll give you a sore spot. 



    Isabela: You have such pretty hair. What a lovely color.
    Aveline: Other children used to laugh at me for having ginger hair.
    Isabela: Really? Aww. I bet you were cute. Did you have pigtails?
    Aveline: Sometimes.
    Isabela: How precious! Little Aveline, running around the village with her flaming orange pigtails streaming behind her...
    Isabela: ... and little boys all scattering and screaming for mercy as she approached.
    Aveline: Shut up, whore. 



(Only if you complete The Way It Should Be)

    Isabela: Well. "Captain." Can I call you captain? You can call me captain.
    Aveline: I won't be doing that.
    Isabela: Neither will I. Because you're a guard captain. No real authority. Not like on a ship.
    Aveline: Well, you would know about having a large number of men under you.
    Isabela: You've been waiting to use that one. Did you practice?
    Aveline: Shut up. 



(When entering the Blooming Rose for the first time)

    Isabela: "The difference between whores and courtesans is... well, they have nicer shoes."
    Aveline: I think your shoes are fine.
    Isabela: Look at you being funny! That might even get you a man someday. 



Act 2

    Aveline: I had trouble with another one of your women, Isabela. She stole from a... distracted client. You're lucky she wasn't jailed.
    Isabela: My women? I am but a shepherd. And what free enterprise are you oppressing now?
    Aveline: Theft is not enterprise.
    Isabela: Opportunities insufficiently guarded. Victimless crimes.
    Aveline: Except for all the victims.
    Isabela: Details. Victimless details. 



    Aveline: How are you so successful with men? You're not that pretty.
    Isabela: Cast a wide enough net, and you're bound to catch something.
    Aveline: (Laughs) At least you're willing to admit it.
    Isabela: Trust me. I've heard, "Get away from me, you pirate hag!" more times than I care to count.
    Aveline: Doesn't that bother you?
    Isabela: Why should it? They don't know me. I know me. 



    Aveline: You're right.
    Isabela: About?
    Aveline: About knowing who you are.
    Aveline: I'm the captain of the guard. I'm loyal, strong, and I don't look too bad naked.
    Isabela: Exactly. And if I called you a mannish, awkward, ball crushing do gooder, you'd say...?
    Aveline: Shut up, whore.
    Isabela: That's my girl. 



(During The Long Road. Isabela must be in the party when you speak to Aveline after posting the duty roster, and choose, "You've been alone this long?")

    Hawke: So you've been by yourself since we came to Kirkwall?
    Isabela: Wait, you've gone four years without? You must creak like a rusty hinge.
    Aveline: Many people have their lives because of me.
    Isabela: But poor you, no life of your own.
    Aveline: We both place others above ourselves. I happen to do it clothed. 

(Isabela approaches Aveline)

    Isabela: You're splitting hairs, but wishing someone would split yours.
    Aveline: I've had enough of your loose lips. Like many, I'm sure. 

(they get in each other's face)

    Isabela: Oh, touché. Prig!
    Aveline: Slattern! 

(Hawke steps in)

    Hawke: If I might put this back on track. 



(After completing The Long Road)

    Isabela: So, how good is Donnic? Is he cocksure?
    Aveline: (Sighs) Just... get it out of your system.
    Isabela: Did he curl your toes? 

(Isabela will say four of the following at random:)

    Isabela: Dwarf your beard?
    Isabela: Arl your Eamon?
    Isabela: Shank your Jory?
    Isabela: Praise your Maker?
    Isabela: Grope your grinder?
    Isabela: Establish his canon?
    Isabela: Kaddis your Katie?
    Isabela: Dampen your Divine?
    Isabela: Pamper your Paragon?
    Isabela: Grey your Warden?
    Isabela: Pudding your peach?
    Isabela: Float your frigate?
    Isabela: Explore your Deep Roads? 

(The fifth will always be one of the following)

    Isabela: How about "satisfy a demand of your Qun."
    Isabela: Or did he Cup your Joining?
    Isabela: Or master your taint? That's an old one.
    Aveline: Yes, all right? He is an incredibly proficient lover. Happy?
    Isabela: Well that's rather personal, don't you think? 



Act 3

    Aveline: You didn't come to my solstice dinner party.
    Isabela: Look at you! Dinner parties, cooking... do you have a lace apron yet, or should I get one for you?
    Aveline: Don't change the subject. I sent you an invitation, and you didn't show up.
    Isabela: I thought it would be... I mean, I don't know. I just don't do family gatherings.
    Isabela: Besides, one day you and Donnic will have children, and I'll be the last person you want around them.
    Isabela: Imagine all the awkward questions you'd have to answer. "Mother, what's a Slattern?"
    Aveline: I'll just point at you and say, "That's a Slattern." 



(If The Long Road was completed)

    Isabela: So, Donnic was in the Rose.
    Aveline: He was not!
    Isabela: Easy, big girl. He wasn't shopping for himself. You're lucky to have a man who wants to please you.
    Isabela: But, maybe you could indulge him more. Are there areas of intimacy you haven't explored?
    Aveline: Why? Why do you give me these doubts!
    Isabela: Aveline. If you shove your thumb up his ass, I win. 

(The last line depends on who else is in the party)

    Anders: Just... no.
    Fenris: (Laughs)
    Merrill: Ew!
    Varric: Ah, that old chestnut.
    Sebastian: Ugh. Maker.
    Hawke: (Coughs) 



(If The Long Road was not completed)

    Isabela: So, Donnic was in the Rose.
    Aveline: Good. Happy for him. He needs to calm down.
    Isabela: You're tough on the man. I don't see how it's his fault if you missed your chance.
    Aveline: Isabela, I realize that you are always prepared for a sudden random phallus, but for your own safety, shut your mouth! 



(If The Long Road was completed)

    Isabela: How's marriage been treating you, big girl?
    Aveline: It's been good. No, great. I'd forgotten what it was like to...
    Isabela: Be flipped ass over tits and hammered like a bent nail?
    Aveline: To. Be. Loved.
    Isabela: Oh. Right, of course.
    Aveline: Not that I'm complaining about the other thing. 



(If The Long Road was not completed)

    Isabela: So how long has it been? Six years? Seven?
    Aveline: None of your business.
    Isabela: You ever thought of going to the Rose? They're discreet and remarkably affordable if you forgo all the extras.
    Aveline: Quiet!
    Isabela: Not that sensual massages aren't lovely, but in a dire situation like yours, you need to get straight to the point.
    Isabela: Some good old fashioned, headboard slamming 
    Aveline: If you don't shut your mouth, I'm going to slam your head against something.
    Isabela: (Whistles) Touchy... 



    Aveline: You know, Isabela, if someone had told me that I'd put up with you for all these years, I'd have punched them flat.
    Isabela: And if someone had told me I'd still be here, I'd have done the same. 

(If No Rest for the Wicked has been completed and Isabela blackmailed Castillon)

    Aveline: You have your ship, what's stopping you? 

(Otherwise)

    Aveline: Save your bits, you'll have your ship one day.
    Isabela: And what would you do without me as a constant headache in the Rose?
    Aveline: Someone would rush to fill the hole. You know, like you never left.
    Isabela: That's my girl.
    Aveline: Maybe you win once in a while. 



    Aveline: (Laughs)
    Isabela: And then he says... he says, "I swear I had two when I came in here."
    Isabela: You know, those stains never did come out.
    Aveline: You are horrible. Every inch.
    Isabela: You love it, big girl. And you owe me for the bottle.
    Isabela: Hawke.
    Aveline: She's not so bad. Except when she is. 



    Aveline: Isabela, I realize that you are always prepared for a sudden random phallus, but for your own safety, shut your mouth! 



(During Champions and Captains, and you choose "How was the honeymoon?")

    Hawke: You never said how your three weeks in Orlais went.
    Aveline: You're right. I didn't.
    Isabela: Ohh. Shivery. 



(During On The Loose, when talking with Emile de Launcet)

    Isabela: Aww, he's like you were. Do you remember, Aveline? When you were stupid over Donnic?
    Aveline: Yes, I remember. Thank you. 

Isabela and Bethany Edit

    Bethany: What were you before you were a pirate?
    Isabela: I had a husband. He didn't beat me, that's about the best I can say about it.
    Bethany: So you left him?
    Isabela: He was murdered. By my lover. It was all very... Antivan.
    Bethany: Oh. I don't think I'd like to live in Antiva. 



    Bethany: So you've... been with women. In bed?
    Isabela: I know. Shocking, isn't it?
    Isabela: You see, sweetness, men are only good for one thing. Women are good for six.
    Bethany: Six? Which six?
    Hawke: Isabela!
    Isabela: (Laughs) 



    Bethany: I guess you've been with a lot of men.
    Isabela: Men. Women. Elves. A dwarf in drag once, but I don't recommend that.
    Bethany: Oh.
    Isabela: Aw... you're blushing! Why? How many lovers have you had?
    Bethany: I I never
    Isabela: You're a virgin? Hawke, you've been holding out on the poor girl! Get her a night at the Blooming Rose. On me!
    Bethany: That's, um, very generous.
    Isabela: I'm a giver. 



    Bethany: That book you were reading this morning, "Hessarian's Spear" I don't think he had a spear in the legends.
    Isabela: He does in this one. Read the description.
    Bethany: "Andraste knelt before no man but her Maker, but she hadn't counted on the archon Hessarian."
    Bethany: "Can Hessarian penetrate the tight knit defenses of the warrior prophetess? Will she be prepared to face the full blast of his... power?"
    Bethany: Wait a minute... Isabela! This is a vulgar thing!
    Isabela: You want to borrow it?
    Bethany: No!
    Isabela: You sure? It has pictures!
    Bethany: Not listening! I'm not listening! 



((When entering the barracks in the Viscount's Keep)

    Isabela: Coming here of my own free will feels wrong... Like diddling a sister.
    Bethany: Why? Why do you say these things? 

Isabela and Carver Edit

    Isabela: I saw you at the Blooming Rose the other night.
    Carver: What? No you didn't.
    Isabela: I suppose someone else stole your chin to romance Faith?
    Carver: (Scoffs) That's unlikely. She wasn't even working.
    Isabela: Mm hmm. Got you. 

(The next line changes depending on your third party member)

    Aveline: Carver!
    Varric: Oh ho! Nicely done.
    Merrill: I don't get it. 

(If one of the previous lines didn't trigger, and Hawke has not slept with anyone in the Blooming Rose)

    Hawke: Carver, what would Mother say? 

    Carver: You're just... that's not what I... shit! 



    Carver: So, Isabela. You captained a ship? That's a lot of men to handle. For you to command.
    Isabela: Well aren't you just adorable fumbling for a topic.
    Carver: You say that like I'm harmless.
    Isabela: As harmless as a pup that will someday grow into its fangs and sink them deep.
    Carver: Sure, keep teasing. I'll show you how much of a pup I am.
    Isabela: I know. That's why I do it. 



    Isabela: You look like a man I once dueled.
    Isabela: He was a little intimated by my reputation as a vicious pirate, but rose to the challenge.
    Carver: He looked like me, you say?
    Isabela: It went on all night, under the stars, the waves lapping at our ankles.
    Carver: On the beach? In the surf? How did you get proper footing?
    Isabela: We didn't. There was quite a bit of tumbling around, and we were soaked and sore by the time the sun came up.
    Carver: Did you... win?
    Isabela: I managed to get on top in the end, but I considered it a tie. 



    Carver: Why is it always about sex with you?
    Isabela: It's not. Sometimes it's about sex with other people.
    Carver: You see? It comes up every single time we talk.
    Isabela: We're just talking, Carver. If it comes up, that's not my fault.
    Carver: What? I mean... that's not what I meant. It... it doesn't!
    Carver: I hate you so much. 

Isabela and Fenris Edit

Act 1

    Isabela: So what's with that magical fisting thing you do?
    Fenris: I'm... sorry?
    Isabela: You know, when you stick your hand into people.
    Fenris: Oh. That. Yes. It's a... talent.
    Isabela: You could make so much coin with that. 



    Isabela: This one time, I was sailing and there was a fight between two of my men.
    Isabela: It was over a dice game, or the last piece of toast, or something. Sailorsthey're touchy about their toast.
    Fenris: Is this going anywhere?
    Isabela: It will if you let me finish.
    Isabela: So, there's a knife fight, and Jim ends up with a broken off blade stuck in his shoulder.
    Isabela: It's buried deep in there, and we're out at sea, at least a week from the nearest port.
    Isabela: If you were there, you could've reached in and plucked that blade right from his flesh.
    Fenris: That's your whole point?
    Isabela: Pretty much. 



    Isabela: I enjoy a man with markings like that.
    Fenris: You've enjoyed many, I suspect.
    Isabela: Where I come from, they're called "tattoos." Sailors get them all the time.
    Fenris: Not made of lyrium, I'd imagine.
    Isabela: Not a one. And the pictures are differentusually breasts.
    Fenris: I suppose a pair of lyrium breasts tattooed onto my chest would make things better.
    Isabela: That's me. I'm a helper. 



    Fenris: So this relic you mentioned losing...
    Isabela: You have pretty eyes.
    Fenris: I... have pretty eyes.
    Isabela: You elves have such pretty eyes, even the men. It makes me want to pluck them out and wear them as a necklace.
    Fenris: I wouldn't suggest trying.
    Isabela: Oh, I would never try. Not without reason, of course.
    Fenris: Forget I said anything. 



    Fenris: So you freed a group of slaves?
    Isabela: Would be slaves. They weren't slaves yet.
    Fenris: Still, you did the right thing. Many would turn a blind eye.
    Isabela: Don't read too much into it, all right? It just seemed a good idea at the time. 



(While speaking to Jethann in The Blooming Rose during the quest The First Sacrifice)

    Isabela: Ooh, I like him. He reminds me of someone.
    Fenris: Can't imagine who. 



Act 2

    Fenris: So I hear you think mages should be free.
    Isabela: Everyone should be free. Not just magess.
    Fenris: Not everyone's dangerous.
    Isabela: It's not about who's dangerous. It's about having choices made for you.
    Isabela: Don't you wish you had the choice not to have lyrium stuck under your skin?
    Fenris: I do.
    Isabela: (Sighs) This is silly. I don't want to argue.
    Fenris: Do you want to guess what color my underclothes are again?
    Isabela: Oh, yes, that's much more fun. 



    Fenris: You keep staring at me. Is it my eyes again?
    Isabela: You're very lanky, for an elf. I like lanky.
    Fenris: From what I gather, you like a lot of things.
    Isabela: Nonsense. But when I see something I like, I go after it. 

(If Hawke is romancing Fenris)

    Fenris: I suggest keeping your distance.
    Isabela: Now you're just making it challenging. 

(Otherwise)

    Fenris: Do you intend to go after me, then?
    Isabela: Will you take off all that spiky armor you're wearing?
    Fenris: It's been known to happen.
    Isabela: Then forget it. 



    Isabela: So what duties did you have? As a slave, I mean?
    Fenris: Not this again.
    Isabela: I heard that Tevinter slaves are kept oiled so they glisten. Did your master oil you up? Did you glisten for him?
    Fenris: I was his bodyguard.
    Isabela: Always close at hand. Always within reach. Glistening.
    Fenris: You have an entire story written in your head already, don't you?
    Isabela: Mmm. 



(In front of The Hanged Man)

    Fenris: I still don't get the name. Did they hang someone here?
    Isabela: It means being drunk. 

(If Varric is in the party)

    Varric: Actually they used to hang men there. By their feet. Till they starved to death.
    Fenris: Well, good thing they were drunk then. 



Act 3

    Isabela: You seem especially broody today.
    Fenris: Does it bother you? Should I stop?
    Isabela: No, don't stop. But could you add some smoldering to the routine? Just for me?
    Fenris: Smolder?
    Isabela: Oh, and while you're at it, perhaps some cold insolence.
    Fenris: You want me to smolder and be cold at the same time? Those don't go together...
    Isabela: Shush. Don't distract me with your logic. 



    Fenris: So you engaged a Qunari dreadnaught in battle.
    Isabela: They engaged me in battle. I was just trying to get away.
    Isabela: Sailing into the storm was a gamble. Took care of the Qunari, but it did us in too. Can't win them all.
    Fenris: Where I come from, we would call that insanity.
    Isabela: Nothing ventured, nothing gained. 



    Fenris: I still can't believe Hawke saved you.
    Isabela: You've been saying that for years. Would you have turned me over to the Qunari?
    Fenris: No, but I know what they do to their prisoners.
    Isabela: Execute them horribly, I imagine.
    Fenris: The Qunari waste nothing. They would reeducate you into a loyal follower of the Qun.
    Isabela: Pfft. Could I refuse?
    Fenris: There's always qamek, which turns you into a mindless laborer. Like I said, they waste nothing.
    Isabela: Oh.
    Fenris: If you wish to thank Hawke, he's/she's standing right there. 



(If neither is in a romance with Hawke)

    Isabela: That night...I can't stop thinking about it.
    Fenris: Well, then I'll see you later.
    Isabela: That was direct.
    Fenris: I thought I'd get straight to the point. Were you expecting flowers or something?
    Isabela: Don't be absurd.
    Fenris: Then I'll see you tonight. 

Isabela and Flemeth Edit

    Isabela: Friend of yours?
    Flemeth: You speak the word as if it were cheap coin, meant for spending.
    Isabela: You don't know me.
    Flemeth: Oh, I know your type. 

Isabela and Leliana Edit

(If you romanced Leliana in Dragon Age: Origins and had a threesome with Isabela:)

    Isabela: Leliana?
    Leliana: Isabela?
    Isabela: "Sister Nightingale," indeed. I remember it didn't take much to make you sing.
    Leliana: *laughs awkwardly*
    Merrill: I like singing! Were you in a choir together?
    Isabela: Not exactly, Kitten.
    Varric: Is there anyone in Ferelden you haven't slept with, Rivaini?
    Merrill: Oh, is that what she... oh. Oh.
    Leliana: Perhaps we... should get back to the reason I'm here. 

     Fenris: A fascinating breed. Such intelligence and strength.
    Fenris: Do you ever wonder what he thinks about?
    Hawke:
        (Diplomatic) I'm not always sure I want to know.
        (Humorous) He still thinks about dog things. Just with more clarity.
        (Aggressive) Slaying his enemies, just like he's been bred to do. 
    Fenris: Are you aware that this breed originated in Tevinter?
    Fenris: The magisters bred them. It's said the mabari defected during the Imperium's invasion of Ferelden.
    Fenris: Merely a tale, but I rather like the idea they found the barbarians more... palatable than the mages.
    Dog: (Happy bark!)
    Fenris: Exactly so.
    Fenris: Let's hope your hound doesn't take after his ancestors too strongly, hmm? 



(During Offered and Lost)

    Fenris: So, on the word of a drunk, we intend to accuse the grand cleric of funding zealots?
    Hawke: It's a careful chat about missing Qunari.
    Fenris: Freedom was interesting while it lasted. 



(At the end of A Murder of Crows, only if Zevran Arainai was not romanced by the Warden, you've flirted with him, and Isabela is not in the party at the time)

    Zevran: It is time for me to move on. Unless you'd... care to get to know each other better, Champion? 

(Though the words are rather innocuous, his next sentence will lead to an offer of a sexual encounter with Zevran. However, if Hawke has an active romance with Fenris and he's present in party, he will cut in here. Isabela must not be present.)

    Fenris: That depends. How much do you wish to test that luck of yours?
    Zevran: Oh, I see. Fair enough, then! 



(During All That Remains if in a romance with Fenris)

    Fenris: I don't know what to say, but I am here
    Hawke: Am I to blame for not saving her?
    Fenris: I could say no, but would that help?
    Fenris: You are looking for forgiveness, but I'm not the one who can give it to you 

or

    Hawke: What about your mother? Is she still alive?
    Fenris: I don't know. I have no memory of her. At least you knew your mother 

or

    Hawke: Just say something. Anything
    Fenris: They say death is only a journey. Does that help?
    Hawke:
        (Diplomatic) I suppose they say you go back to The Maker when you die. 
    Fenris: I've heard that, too.
    Fenris: To be honest, I see no point in filling these moments with empty talk. 

or

    Hawke: Just say something. Anything.
    Fenris: They say death is only a journey. Does that help?
    Hawke:
        (Charming) It just raises more questions. Journey to where? 
    Fenris: I don't know. It's just something people say. 

Fenris and Anders Edit

Act 1

    Anders: You ever going to stop harping on the mages here?
    Fenris: No.
    Anders: They aren't what you saw in Tevinter.
    Fenris: The moment they are free, mages will make themselves magisters.
    Anders: They're slaves! You should want to help them.
    Fenris: I don't. 



    Anders: So, there must be mages in Tevinter that don't use blood magic.
    Fenris: Of course. There are slaves. The magisters do not hesitate to collar their own kind.
    Anders: But no magisters?
    Fenris: Why must you go on about this? No magister would turn down an advantage over his rivals. If he did, he'd be dead.
    Anders: You know, to use blood magic you must look a demon in the eye and accept his offer.
    Anders: I just figured some of them would say no. For aesthetic reasons, if nothing else. 



    Fenris: Did I hear correctly? You are an... abomination?
    Anders: Why don't you shout? I don't think everyone heard you.
    Fenris: Do you see yourself as harmless, then? An abomination who would never harm someone?
    Anders: Like ripping someone's heart out of his chest?
    Fenris: I did that at the behest of no demon.
    Anders: So we agree that it doesn't take a demon for someone to be a vicious killer? Good. 



    Fenris: Why was your friend made Tranquil? Do you know?
    Anders: No, and it doesn't matter. Nobody deserves that.
    Fenris: I know some mages that deserve that.
    Anders: Really? Perhaps they should start making slaves Tranquilthen they wouldn't dream of escaping! Wouldn't that be wonderful?
    Fenris: Slaves do not attract demons that try to possess them.
    Anders: Which clearly justifies it? What a perfect solution! 



Act 2

    Fenris: Is there something you want, Anders?
    Anders: You really don't have the temperament for a slave.
    Fenris: Is that a compliment or an insult?
    Anders: I'm just wondering how your master didn't kill you.
    Fenris: How have the templars not killed you?
    Anders: I'm charming. 



    Anders: Did you ever think about killing yourself?
    Fenris: I could ask you the same thing.
    Anders: I'm serious. To get out of slavery, to escape Danarius... don't tell me you never thought about it.
    Fenris: I did not. To kill oneself is a sin in the eyes of the Maker.
    Anders: You... believe that?
    Fenris: I try to. Some things must be worse than slavery.
    Anders: Some things are worse than death. 



    Fenris: You should have lived in Tevinter. You'd be happier there.
    Anders: You're probably right.
    Fenris: There, your magic would be a mark of honor. Apprenticed to the right Magister, you would do well.
    Anders: Is there a down side?
    Fenris: Only if you're bothered by owning a few slaves and performing the occasional blood ritual.
    Anders: So they all do those things?
    Fenris: Just the ones who don't complain about how powerless and persecuted they are. 



(If you complete Dissent)

    Fenris: I seem to recall you saying something a while ago...
    Anders: Shut up.
    Fenris: "I can control it." Wasn't that what you said?
    Anders: So help me... 



Act 3

    Anders: Do you still support the Knight Commander?
    Fenris: I don't care a fig for her. But she's the only one holding back the madness in this city.
    Anders: Holding back? She's howling at the bloody moon!
    Anders: Even her own people think she's lost it.
    Anders: What will it take for you to see that she's crazy?
    Fenris: Mages in glass houses shouldn't throw fireballs. 



    Anders: By now, you must see what an injustice the templars are.
    Fenris: Must I? I see templars trying to control what they have good reason to fear.
    Anders: But they go too far.
    Fenris: Talk to Hawke about his/her mother. Ask him/her who went "too far."
    Anders: You can't hold all mages responsible for that!
    Fenris: It doesn't take all mages to cause this. Only the weak ones. 



    Anders: Not all mages are weak. 

(If Hawke is a mage)

    Fenris: True. Hawke, for instance, is not weak. 

(Otherwise)

    Fenris: Bethany, for instance, was not weak.
    Anders: You specifically don't mention me.
    Fenris: That's also true.
    Anders: I'll prove to you that I'm not weak
    Fenris: Prove it to yourself. You're convincing no one else. 



(If Hawke spent the night with Fenris)

    Anders: I can't imagine what Hawke sees in you.
    Fenris: It is done. Leave it be.
    Anders: Well, good. I always knew she/he had some sense.
    Fenris: Do not make light of this. Leaving was the hardest thing I've ever done. 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: Oh, will you two get over yourselves? You're like two dogs around a bitch in heat.
    Fenris: We were talking about Hawke. Not you. 

(If Isabela is in the party and you slept with her as well)

    Isabela: Oh, will you two get over yourselves? I did her/him too. 



(If Hawke spent the night with Fenris, but moved on to Anders)

    Anders: You were an idiot to leave Hawke.
    Fenris: And you were fast enough to replace me.
    Anders: I love him/her. You can't even imagine what that is.
    Fenris: Do not bare your heart to me, mage, unless you would have me rip it out. 



(If Hawke spent the night with Fenris, but moved on to Anders)

    Fenris: You... are living with Hawke now?
    Anders: What's it to you?
    Fenris: Be good to him/her. Break his/her heart, and I will kill you. 



(If Hawke romanced Fenris and with Fenris in the party and didn't reject Anders in Act 1)

    Anders: I know it isn't my place to criticize, but...
    Anders: Are you sure about Fenris?
    Anders: He seems less a man to me than a wild dog.
    Hawke: You just don't know him.
    Anders: I know as much as I'm ever likely to.
    Fenris: That's right, mage.
    Anders: He has let one bad experience color his whole world. Surely you want someone more openminded?
    Fenris: A mage and a hypocrite. What company you keep. 

Fenris and Aveline Edit

Act 1

    Aveline: Are you safe, Fenris?
    Fenris: No.
    Aveline: You know, some guards give people the opportunity to lie if it will keep the peace.
    Fenris: You can see what I am. Lie to yourself if you must. 



    Fenris: I understand you're named after a famous knight?
    Aveline: Everyone always brings up the name.
    Fenris: I've not heard of Ser Avelineis she very famous?
    Aveline: Really? They don't tell of her glorious downfall in Tevinter?
    Fenris: Not to slaves.
    Aveline: Pardon me for saying so, but thank the Maker for that. 



    Fenris: You do not like your name?
    Aveline: My name is a wish my father made. And I did want to be a knight, but...
    Fenris: I see. Still, it's a good name. A strong name.
    Aveline: What were you named after?
    Fenris: I don't know my real name. My master called me Fenris, his "little wolf."
    Aveline: Could you not call yourself something different now?
    Fenris: Couldn't you?
    Aveline: A fine point. 



(Only if you complete The Way It Should Be)

    Aveline: You are known, Fenris.
    Fenris: What?
    Aveline: I'm going through Jeven's neglected reports. Some involve you. And requests about you.
    Fenris: By whom?
    Aveline: I don't know. They're old, poorly kept. But you should be on your best behavior.
    Fenris: Thank you for getting rid of them.
    Aveline: I didn't. 



Act 2

    Aveline: All right, I'm just going to say it. Fenris, you need to present yourself better.
    Fenris: What are you talking about?
    Aveline: You're squatting in Hightown. I sympathize with your claims, but your neighbors have influence.
    Fenris: My claims?
    Aveline: To the estate. "Rightfully stolen" isn't exactly something I can forward to the Viscount. Be more discreet about... yourself.
    Fenris: I shall endeavor to exist with less offense. 



    Aveline: Fenris, did you consider my offer for you to train the guard in Tevinter fighting techniques? I've heard nothing.
    Fenris: My abilities were inflicted, not taught. I will not pass that on.
    Aveline: Some good should come of them.
    Fenris: No. 



    Fenris: It feels good to be captain of the guard, yes?
    Aveline: No, I will not change the patrols around your mansion again. There's already been too many questions.
    Fenris: You wound my pride with such accusations.
    Aveline: But you were going to ask.
    Fenris: Eventually.
    Aveline: (Laughs) I'll look at the roster and see what I can do. 



(During A Bitter Pill, in the Abandoned Slaver Den, when the Blood Sacrifice is examined)

    Fenris: See for yourself. The legacy of the magisters.
    Aveline: Is this... allowed in Tevinter?
    Fenris: In a society where mages rule, they find many ways to justify their need for power. 



During The Long Road
Note: Fenris's dialogue contributions will be trumped by those of Isabela and Varric)


In Aveline's office, part 3

    Aveline: (Sighs) All right, I can fix this. I need... I need three goats and a sheaf of wheat. You'll take them to his mother. (To Hawke) 

Hawke raises a very perplexed eyebrow.

    Aveline: It's a dowry tradition. Maybe it will smooth the process.
    Fenris: A dowry? Then... this isn't about accusations.
    Aveline: No, it's not.
    Fenris: She's courting the man. With a fear reserved for dragons. 

Part of same conversation, when Hawke asks about Aveline's difficulty with expressing her affections. Must have active romance with Fenris and not currently involved with someone else.

    Aveline: What about you and Fenris? How do you deal with the danger of your lives? 

    (If Fenris is in party) Fenris looks at Hawke, who pauses and glances down before answering. 
    (If Fenris is not in party) Hawke uses slightly lighter tone without pausing. 

    Hawke: Maybe we're not the best example. 

Ending part of same conversation, when Hawke decides to continue helping Aveline but asks her what she wants to do instead of providing a direct solution

    Aveline: I'm the captain. He's my guardsman. I can't get past that.
    Fenris: If the existing relationship prevents a new one, go somewhere you are equal.
    Aveline: What, just... go out somewhere? Like it's that easy? 

...Which eventually leads to another scene in the Hanged Man, after Aveline's unsuccessful "date", as interjection between Hawke's lines:

    Fenris: Again, she deflects.
    Aveline: I will not risk...
    Fenris: You're squandering something you don't understand.
    Hawke: You can't ignore advice from such a stable source. (no sarcasm intended) 

At the end of the "patrol" along the Wounded Coast, when Hawke pushes for Aveline to come clean with Donnic. This will not occur if Varric, Isabela, Anders, or Merrill is in the party.

    Donnic: Would someone please tell me what's going on?
    Fenris: She wants you. It is pathetic... and admirable.
    Donnic: Captain?
    Aveline: (embarrassed laugh) 



Act 3

    Fenris: I was speaking with Donnic the other day...
    Aveline: Since when do you talk with my husband?
    Fenris: He... comes to the mansion once a week? We play diamondback.
    Aveline: What? Why am I not invited to these games?
    Fenris: He says you get angry when you lose.
    Aveline: I do not! All right, perhaps I do. Still, that's no reason not to tell me. 

(If Isabela is in the party)

    Isabela: Perhaps he longed for less masculine companionship?
    Aveline: Shut up, whore. 

(If Varric is in the party)

    Varric: It is if he's a betting man.
    Fenris: I disavow any knowledge of gambling occurring in my house. 

(Otherwise:)

    Fenris: He's a good man, Aveline. I enjoy his visits.
    Aveline: Fine, fine. Have your "man time," then. 



    Aveline: Do you feel like a citizen, Fenris?
    Fenris: Excuse me?
    Aveline: You've been in Kirkwall as long as I have. Does it feel like home?
    Fenris: I have no comparison, really. It feels like a free place.
    Aveline: Maybe that's enough.
    Fenris: We shall see. 

(Alternately, if Fenris is in a relationship with Hawke)

    Aveline: You've been in Kirkwall as long as I have. Does it feel like home?
    Fenris: It feels. That itself has been a surprise.
    Aveline: (If The Long Road was completed)I think I know what you mean. 

(or)

    Aveline: (If The Long Road was not completed)I think I had a chance for that and missed it. 



    Aveline: There's a war coming. Does it feel different, fighting by choice?
    Fenris: You were never ordered to kill?
    Aveline: I was a soldier, but I was willing.
    Fenris: I was willing, as well, but not by choice. (Laughs) If that makes any sense.
    Aveline: Does anything in this mess? 



    Aveline: Thank you for that tip, Fenris.
    Fenris: You caught them, then?
    Aveline: Yesa whole nest of slave runners working out of the Undercity.
    Fenris: I imagine you imprisoned them?
    Aveline: Sadly, they never made it to prison.
    Fenris: You always know how to make me smile, Aveline. 

Fenris and Bethany Edit

    Fenris: You've been an apostate your whole life, then?
    Bethany: Like my father before me. What of it?
    Fenris: Didn't your family consider that dangerous?
    Bethany: There are mages who go their whole lives without ever falling prey to a demon. Many of them, in fact.
    Fenris: And if the Templars came looking for you? That would not be danger enough?
    Bethany: Perhaps there shouldn't be any Templars. 



    Fenris: You know, you cannot wish the Templars away.
    Bethany: I can try.
    Fenris: Is the Circle here truly so terrible an option?
    Bethany: Do you really have to ask that?
    Fenris: You would be kept safe from others as well as yourself, and they would be kept safe from you.
    Bethany: I... didn't ask for this.
    Fenris: Nobody asks for their fate. 



    Bethany: Do you ever miss Tevinter?
    Fenris: I was a slave.
    Bethany: Still, it was your home, right? The only one you remember?
    Bethany: Does it ever feel strange not to be there?
    Fenris: Sometimes. That does not mean I would go back. 



    Bethany: So, the magister put lyrium in your skin?
    Fenris: So I'm told.
    Bethany: Does it hurt?
    Fenris: You do not want to know the answer to that. 

Fenris and Carver Edit

    Carver: So... this master of yours wants your markings back? Skin and all?
    Fenris: So his hunters told me. Unwillingly.
    Carver: So why not cover them up? Wouldn't that make you harder to find?
    Fenris: Let them come. I am not one to hide.
    Carver: Still, if it were me
    Fenris: It's not. 



    Carver: So you've really never thought of hiding from those hunters?
    Fenris: To what end?
    Carver: So you could, I don't know, have a life?
    Fenris: What life do you have? There are no hunters after you at all.
    Carver: I have a life!
    Fenris: One that you complain about. We are not always free to do as we wish, as you should well know.
    Carver: I do have a life.
    Fenris: Then I stand corrected. 



    Carver: You're very different from other elves.
    Fenris: Oh? You know them all?
    Carver: No. I just... you look different. There's no denying that.
    Fenris: It is what I am. And unlike the problems you claim to have, I really did have no choice.
    Carver: Do we know anyone who isn't brooding every hour of the day?
    Fenris: Like attracts like, it seems. 



    Carver: You know, Fenris, I have a tattoo.
    Fenris: You have a what?
    Carver: A tattoo. A lot of us got them before Ostagar. It's a Mabari. For strength.
    Fenris: Does it curse you with the ability to reach into a man and tear out his insides?
    Carver: Uh. I can make it bark.
    Fenris: Please don't. 

(Next line depends on the third companion present)

    Anders: Yes, refrain.
    Aveline: Agreed.
    Isabela: Rather see it wag.
    Merrill: That's... ew.
    Varric: Seconded.
    Hawke: (Sighs) 

Fenris and Flemeth Edit

    Fenris: A witch! (with Fenris in party when Hawke gives the amulet to the Dalish)
    Aveline: Calm yourself, we know this one. (if in party) 

(when Hawke asks for his opinion)

    Fenris: You are no simple witch.
    Flemeth: Figured that out yourself, did you?
    Fenris: I have seen powerful mages, spirits, and abominations. But you are none of those things. What are you?
    Flemeth: Such a curious lad. The chains are broken, but are you truly free?
    Fenris: You see a great deal. 

     Anders: You don't like me, Carver?
    Carver: I don't like you.
    Anders: That's unfortunate. Hating someone just because they're a mage is a shameful thing.
    Carver: I don't hate you because you're a mage. I hate you because you won't shut up about it.
    Carver: Oppression this, templars that. I'd heard enough long before you.
    Anders: Maybe it's time you put some thought into it. 



    Carver: What are you looking at?
    Anders:
        (If Hawke is male) Your brother is a mage. As was your sister and father?
        (If Hawke is female) Your sisters are... were both mages, as was your father? 
    Carver: And I'm not. What of it?
    Anders: Nothing, it's not always passed to all siblings. But it's good to know that you understand our plight.
    Carver: Shove your plight. 



    Anders: I'm sorry about your sister. She sounds like a special girl.
    Carver: Why? Because she was a mage?
    Anders:
        (If Hawke is male) Your brother says she had a good heart. Being on the run never made her bitter.
        (If Hawke is female) Your other sister says she was a good person. That she never turned down a chance to help people. 
    Carver: Yes, yes. I'm sure the Chantry's got a shrine with her portrait on it.
    Anders: I was trying to be nice.
    Carver: Stick to surly. It works for you. 



    Anders: Nice day to be planning a trip into the Deep Roads, don't you think?
    Anders: The Blight, the dampness, the festering darkness filled with tainted rats...
    Carver: Shut up.
    Anders: You've got a real chip on your shoulder, you know?
    Carver: I've got a big blade on my shoulder, magey.
    Anders: Right. Wonder what you're compensating for. 

Carver and Aveline Edit

    Carver: Did you approve my application?
    Aveline: I can't make you a guard, Carver.
    Carver: We were both soldiers. Why won't they take me?
    Aveline: I was an officer. And I follow orders.
    Carver: (Laughs) No you don't.
    Aveline: I also think of others before myself. You seem tired of that, and that's dangerous.
    Carver: Just when it's not my choice. You told them not to take me, didn't you?
    Aveline: Yes. 



    Carver: I'm surprised you still travel with us, Aveline.
    Aveline: Carver, don't.
    Carver: You're ever so busy with the guardsmen. It must be a burden to slum with the refugees.
    Aveline: It's oddly comforting that you insult me like I'm family.
    Carver: That wasn't... no, I didn't mean that.
    Aveline: I know. But you should be glad that's how I took it. 



    Aveline: I don't like some of the people you've been associating with, Carver.
    Carver: Talk to my brother/sister. He/She's the one in charge. 

(If on friendship path with Aveline)

    Aveline: Maybe, but I know you get around. 

(If on rivalry path with Aveline)

    Aveline: Who says I don't mean him/her too?
    Aveline: This city's full of people who are dead set on ending badly. I don't want to see you end up the same way.
    Carver: Would asking you to stop spying on me help in the least?
    Aveline: No. 



    Aveline: So, Carver, have you thought about what you'll do if your expedition doesn't pay off?
    Carver: This is our only chance and you know it.
    Aveline: You're so damned proud you couldn't pick up a trade?
    Carver: And who would take on a Fereldan apprentice? Maybe in another year I could work my way up to pissboy.
    Aveline: Fine, let's crawl down some holes. Good bloody luck for your sake. 



    Aveline: Tell me, how did your family escape Lothering? Almost everyone who hadn't fled...
    Carver:
        (If Hawke is male) My brother. If he wasn't with us, I don't think we'd be here.
        (If Hawke is female) My older sister. If she wasn't with us, I don't think we'd be here. 
    Aveline: But you seem quite skilled as well.
    Carver: I'm not my brother/sister. 



(When talking to Aveline during A Friend in the Guard and ask, "Do you miss being a soldier?")

    Hawke: This must be a very different pace from serving King Cailan.
    Aveline: It's just one more change, though. The real end for me was Ostagar.
    Aveline: What about you Carver? You were there. Do you feel something similar?
    Carver: No.
    Aveline: All right, then.
    Aveline: Bit of a tit, your brother. 

     Bethany: Maker's breath! Can't you do this when I'm not around?
    Hawke: Run along and play, Bethany.
    Bethany: This is not why we came to Kirkwall! 

(When saying you're interested in Jethann's services, but refuse after Bethany's complaint)

    Hawke: Fine. I'll do this some other day.
    Bethany: It's too late. The images are already in my mind and they will never, ever go away. 



(When giving the bones you found during The First Sacrifice to Emeric)

    Hawke: Recognize your mage?
    Bethany: You're horrible! 

Bethany and Anders Edit

    Bethany: So, you were in the Circle and ran away. I don't know if I'd be brave enough to do that.
    Anders: You've been an apostate your whole life.
    Bethany: Exactly. It was never anything I had to work for.
    Bethany: Other people always took the risks, to keep me free. 



    Anders: Where did you learn your magic? I mean, you know my feelings on the Circle, but usually it's the only decent training a mage can get.
    Bethany: My father taught me. He was in the Circle once, trained there. But he got away.
    Anders: You don't know how lucky you were, to have someone who loved you and could help you. Most mages would kill for that.
    Bethany: You remind me of him. 



    Anders: The Rite of Tranquility is the whole problem. If they didn't have that to hold over us, we'd have so many more options.
    Bethany: Right! If we want to fight back... or just engage in intelligent debate... they make sure we can't do it.
    Anders: They're forcing our hands. There's no way to change things peacefully.
    Bethany: There must be something.
    Anders: If it's Tranquility or death, we have no choice but to make every confrontation a life or death struggle.
    Bethany: I know, but... there are good people in the Circle, the Chantry. There has to be a way to reason with them.
    Anders: Not if they take away your ability to reason. 



    Bethany: I know it didn't work the way you wanted, but... it was brave, what you did with Justice.
    Anders: It was meant well. I don't know if that's enough to forgive me.
    Bethany: It must have been hard for him, being trapped outside the Fade. In a place where no one's like him.
    Bethany: I bet he appreciated having a friend.
    Anders: He did. 

Bethany and Aveline Edit

    Bethany: Was Wesley based out of the Lothering chantry? I don't remember seeing him there.
    Aveline: He served elsewhere. He was coming to find me at Ostagar.
    Aveline: Were you familiar with every templar in Lothering?
    Bethany: How else was I supposed to know when to run and hide? 



    Bethany: Being a guardsman seems like a better life than being a soldier.
    Aveline: Oh?
    Bethany: My brother was a soldier. It's all about taking land and serving some king you've never met.
    Bethany: Guardsmen, they do something real. They protect people. They make their lives better.
    Aveline: I don't know if I agree.
    Bethany: Neither would my brother. 



    Bethany: How come you and Wesley never had children? I mean, sorry if that's too personal
    Aveline: It's all right.
    Aveline: I was a soldier and he was a templar. We knew that our personal lives would have to wait.
    Aveline: Distance never mattered, but we ran out of time. It is what it is.
    Bethany: Now that he's gone, do you ever wish
    Aveline: That's too personal. 



    Aveline: You show admirable restraint, Bethany.
    Bethany: For a mage, you mean.
    Aveline: I could also say, "for a Hawke," but yes, for a mage.
    Bethany: You have a sword. Why aren't you killing someone right now?
    Aveline: Fair point, but I can put my sword down.
    Bethany: Believe me, I have tried. 



    Aveline: I'm sorry I couldn't get you more information about the Circle, Bethany. It's difficult without naming you.
    Bethany: Thank you for being discreet. I don't want the templars at my door.
    Aveline: No one does.
    Bethany: Let them corral the troublemakers. I just want information.
    Aveline: Right. Right.
    Bethany: It sounds like I'm trying to convince myself, doesn't it?
    Aveline: I wouldn't have said. But yes. 

     Aveline: He's a good man. Trust that it's as bad as he says.
    Hawke: (Sarcastic Hawke) How about we skip this one? Send your man instead?
    Aveline: How about I shove a canary up your coal mine? Let's go. 



(During Questioning Beliefs, after The Long Road, and choose, "You need my good humor")

    Hawke: You don't want me as sour and dour as you. You need a counterpoint.
    Aveline: I don't think I've asked to be the butt of your jokes.
    Hawke: Donnic. 

(Pause)

    Aveline: Okay, sometimes I have asked for it. 

Aveline and Anders Edit

Act 1

    Aveline: I hear good things about you, Anders. Not what I expected.
    Anders: From a mage, you mean.
    Aveline: I didn't say that.
    Anders: How else would you judge me? What else am I a shining example of?
    Aveline: I don't know... other Fereldans lurking in Darktown? Mage or not.
    Anders: You... have a fair point. 



    Anders: So you married a templar, huh?
    Aveline: What of it?
    Anders: Are they all as dirty as they seem?
    Aveline: What?
    Anders: Did he ever ask you to play "the naughty mage and the helpless recruit?" Maybe the "secret desire demon and the upstanding knight?"
    Aveline: That's disgusting!
    Anders: I hear it's quite popular. 



    Aveline: I could use your consult Anders.
    Anders: Bring it to Darktown, and I'll get you a salve or something.
    Aveline: What? No! I need to know some things about mages.
    Anders: Why?
    Aveline: I'm a guard. I'm the first person who has to deal with... trouble.
    Anders: You want help killing people like me.
    Aveline: Not every mage can be trusted.
    Anders: Nor every guard. 



    Anders: Do you ever miss Ferelden?
    Aveline: Of course! It was home. I would never have left willingly.
    Aveline: But I'm not going to be my father and spend my life trying to live a memory.
    Anders: I didn't think I'd give it a second thought once I was gone. I mean, what did Ferelden ever do for me?
    Anders: But I do. I think about it. There's something here that just doesn't feel right.
    Aveline: You mean how mages are treated?
    Anders: No... I think there's not enough dog shit. 



Act 2

    Aveline: You're glaring, Anders. Is there a reason, or is it one of your moods?
    Anders: Your term as captain hasn't been particularly "mage friendly."
    Aveline: I've only turned a handful over to the templars.
    Anders: Every despot starts somewhere.
    Aveline: And yet I allow an abomination to whine at me! Credit where it's due. 



    Aveline: So you're two people, Anders and... Justice?
    Anders: That's not strictly accurate.
    Aveline: But you are of two minds.
    Anders: Many people are.
    Aveline: Now you're the one not being accurate.
    Anders: I thought those were the rules of this game.
    Aveline: I never know who I'm talking to with you.
    Anders: Then it's fortunate it doesn't occur often. 



    Anders: So, I never expected to be palling around with the captain of the guard.
    Aveline: We're not "pals."
    Anders: We're not? What about that time we painted each other's toenails?
    Aveline: Do you want something?
    Anders: Love, life, and liberty. What more does a man need?
    Aveline: You're in a jolly mood.
    Anders: Well, when you're here, I know you're not leading men into Darktown to arrest me. 



(If Ella was killed during Dissent)

    Anders: Can I ask you something, Aveline?
    Aveline: I cannot look the other way when mages break the law
    Anders: That's not what I was going to ask.
    Anders: There's a girl. A mage apprentice. She...was murdered in the Gallows recently. Have you heard anything of it?
    Aveline: You mean the girl you killed.
    Anders: Yes. I'd like to... attend the funeral. Do something.
    Aveline: The official templar report says she was killed by a demon of unknown origin.
    Aveline: Let her family mourn in peace. 



Act 3

    Anders: I suppose you're just thrilled how the knight commander's basically stepped into the viscount's seat?
    Aveline: She can't stall the process forever. It's not her place.
    Aveline: Leaving the viscount's seat empty will just tempt people to fight for it. It will cause more trouble than it prevents.
    Anders: Well. You've got a brain in there after all.
    Anders: I was convinced that headband was to keep it from falling out. 



    Aveline: I have to admit, Anders. Of the mages I know, you're the one I expected to go out in a blaze.
    Anders: The day is young.
    Aveline: It was a compliment, you ass.
    Anders: No, it wasn't. 



    Anders: Your husband agrees with me.
    Aveline: About what?
    Anders: He thinks the knight commander's mad. He told me she's gone behind your back to investigate guardsmen she suspects as secret mages.
    Aveline: Even if that were true, he wouldn't tell you.
    Anders: He won't fight for her when the time comes. Would you turn against your own husband?
    Aveline: I don't know if you're lying or crazy. 



(During The Last Straw)

    Aveline: Just to be clear Anders: when this is over, you will turn yourself in for your crime.
    Anders: I'm well aware of your commitment to oppression.
    Aveline: The laws of the land. Fairly applied to everyone.
    Anders: That...is actually something I'd very much like to see.
