  "Hawke said sarcastically."  "Hawke said aggressively."  "Hawke asked diplomatically."  "Hawke muttered in an angry aside to the dwarf..."  You know, you play diamondback better than my cousin Vidar.  You wag your tail whenever you have a good hand, though. Might want to watch that.  All I'm saying is, he'd be up more than two sovereigns if he watched his tells.  My Uncle Emmet has a whole pack of rat terriers who play every week.  They're a cutthroat bunch. You've got a long way to go to be their quality.  Now don't take it badyou're still better than Anders.  Coming to the Hanged Man later?  Just wondering if the feathered pauldrons are an essential part of the moody rebel mage persona.  I'm working on an epic poem about a hopelessly romantic apostate waging an epic struggle against forces he can't possibly defeat.  Well, it's not a good story unless the hero dies.  You left out criminals and hired muscle.  We dwarves are drawn to shiny objects. Sort of like Magpies, but with business sense.  Of course I am. We come to the surface with the skills our ancestors had, Blondie.  You think there's a tradition of dwarf woodcutters in Orzammar? Bee keepers? Sailors?  Orzammar will never let those people go topside. Too vital. Also, embarrassing.  So a human, an elf, and a dwarf walk into a bar...  You could have just stopped me, Blondie.  Too prosaic. Trapped in a cave with hungry bears, right at the spring thaw.  Ooh. That's poetic!  What to do to Bartrand when I find him.  Blondie, I don't mean to sound critical, but have you considered a new line of work?  Pretty much anything? I don't think "renegade mage" has a bright future. Or any retirement plan.  If you've got something to say, just spit it out.  I get that a lot. So what's on your mind?  They're busy people. Places to go, throats to cut. Maybe you've slipped their minds.  You must have me confused with someone else! I'm just a businessman and a storyteller.  Oh, cheer up, Blondie. You're making me cry just looking at you.  You made a mistake. It happens.  You've killed two hundred and fifty four by my last count. Plus about five hundred men, a few dozen giant spiders, and at least two demons.  Why? Because this one you feel bad about? Maybe that's the problem.  So, three templars walk into a tavern.  You feeling all right, Blondie? You're always in the mood for templar jokes.  So, the knight commander... Boiling in oil? That one never gets old.  I'm helping you indulge in elaborate revenge fantasies. I think it's good for you.  Go away, Justice. Can Anders come out and play?  You are no fun anymore.  You've been glowering for days. Your face is going to get stuck that way.  That's because you don't have to look at it.  If you could see it from this angle, Blondie, it'd be at least a close second on your priority list.  So, you and Hawke... I need some details. Did you go down on one knee? Did he/she jump you? Did you swear eternal vows of love, or is this just a physical thing?  Fine, but if you don't tell me, I'm just going to have to make it up.  Am I the next stop in your career evaluations? Joy of joys.  You are dismissing hallmarks of both the utterly ineffectual and the incredibly dangerous.  It means coins flow when I talk and when I shut up. Like if you got paid to guard or unguard.  Good.  Who's that for? Are most criminals big readers? Seems like pacifying the nobles.  Well how about a giant sign that just says "Don't." You could hit people with it.  A Fereldan in the guard. What will they think of next?  Me? My family's not native either. I'm just surprised. Lots of old prejudice in the guard.  You know, it's possible they're just scared shitless of you. That's my theory, anyway.  So what do you do, Aveline?  I mean in your off duty hours. For fun. You've heard of it, I hope?  And the trend of you scaring the piss out of me continues.  Beg your pardon?  That's not true. There's Hawke. And Bianca.  Haven't thought of a good one yet. What do you think of "Red?"  Well, when you think of one, let me know.  And here I've always looked up to you. What is it now?  Hard in Hightown. Riveting stuff. Everyone loves a dirty guard on the edge.  Fine. I'll start his big finish. Three chapters until Donnen Brennicovick retires and opens a tavern on the coast.  I sure hope he makes it. He's getting too old for this shit.  Once more I am falsely accused of whatever it is that I am accused of. Falsely.  That does sound pretty good.  It is true what they say. The best comedy comes from tragedy.  You don't say?  I'll introduce you some time. He's a little on the shy side.  Which makes him a much better head of the household than I am. He never misses the Merchants Guild meetings, for one.  I'm thinking of switching to romances. Nothing? Not even a foreboding frown?  Well that certainly takes the fun out of it. Contentment in the barracks? Who'll pay to hear that shit?  That is... not a comforting thought.  I think we've both lost some inspiration.  Starkhaven's too pretentious for me and Cumberland's too boring.  Aveline, I thought you'd have noticed by now  If I ever decide to get caught, Aveline, you'll be the guard I let catch me.  "Decide to get caught" didn't trip you up though. Good to know!  I'm expecting some practical experience fairly soon.  For you, madam, endless sunsets and roses.  And the swift hand of the law sweeping all aside. I thought it went unsaid.  And here I thought it took blood magic to read minds.  Sorry about your brother.  Hey, you want mine? I've got a spare...  Great Ancestors, no! You know what Orzammar is?  It's cramped tunnels, filled with nug shit and body odor.  And every person there thinks he's better than you because his great great great grandfather made a water clock or something.  I have a good imagination. Why would I waste it on that?  Sunshine, I'm a dwarf. In case you missed that detail.  No, no, no! I meant there are at least thirty people in this town who'd murder my family over trade deals.  Who has time to worry about apostates with a Merchant's Guild breathing down your neck?  By some definition of the term.  Sunshine, nobility is just an expensive lifestyle. I've already got one of those.  Estates, servants, investments, mercenaries, assassins? We've still got all those things.  It's sunnier here, and nobody calls me my lord. I think I can live with that.  So... Milady Sunshine, what's your first act of noblewoman going to be?  Practicality is for peasants, my lady. You need to do something frivolous to celebrate your birthright.  Come up to the Hightown Market and complain bitterly that there's no Orlesian silk that matches your eyes.  Insist that they're blatantly copying you, and demand royalties. A good noble always has a complaint ready, Sunshine.  You know, Junior, it's eerie how much of a resemblance there is between you two.  Ooh, you thought I meant Hawke. I was talking about Gamlen.  What's your issue now, little Hawke?  You think you're that interesting?  Don't you worry. I'm not in the business of lullabies or children's stories.  Dwarves made them.  You know, Junior, you're looking at this all wrong.  I'm a professional younger brother. Trust me, the center of attention's the worst place to be.  When things go wrong, and they always do, that's where all the fingers point. Look at any kingdom in Thedas.  You've got people who warm thrones, and people nobody sees who do the real work.  Point. Missing it. Ah well.  Carver.  Still riding side saddle while bitching at your betters?  Never miss'em.  I misplaced it, along with my sense of dwarven pride and my gold plated noble caste pin.  Oh ho! The broody elf tells a joke!  Friend, if your brooding were any more impressive, women would swoon as you passed. They'd have broody babies in your honor.  And you thought I was joking about the pin.  So, elf. That thing you do with your hand...  I bet that makes pickpocketing easier.  Is brooding a sport in Tevinter? Do they hold competitions? Hand out trophies for the best scowls?  Moping, then. You seem like you're a champion at it.  Oh, so that's you smiling? Glad you clarified that. I'd never have known.  You know, if you need advice on how to lay low I can give you some.  Keep that up, serah, and you can keep on hiding like a rank amateur.  You could try wearing something that didn't scream  Really? Through anything? That's... kind of cool.  You really ought to take that offer, elf. It would keep the Coterie off your back pretty much permanently.  But it wouldn't kill you to make some friends in this city. Three years, and you're practically a ghost.  Healthy attitude there. Forget I said anything.  So what do you do in that gigantic house all day?  Really?  You're actually joking. Alert the Chantry! They need to put this on the calendar!  I did! Wasn't expecting that.  With Bartrand? No, just brothers. Occasionally he wasn't insufferable.  Too bad he didn't do the same.  Actually they used to hang men there. By their feet.  My crossbow. Say hello, Bianca.  Nope. Mirabelle was taken.  Hey! I'm a perfect gentleman. In public.  It's a lot of humans in skirts. I get them mixed up.  Tell me about it.  Opinions are like testicles. You kick them hard enough, doesn't matter how many you got.  You know you still owe me five sovereigns, elf.  So, you think you can win the coin from Isabela? Good luck with that.  Meaning you'll borrow it from Hawke, probably.  Coming to the Hanged Man for Wicked Grace later?  So...you and Hawke?  I want to make sure I get all the details right when I tell this story. Did you sweep her off her feet or was it the other way around?  I want to make sure I get all the details right when I tell this story. Did he sweep you off your feet? I'm assuming he did the sweeping. He's taller than you. Awkward, otherwise.  Every little bit helps, elf.  I shit you not, Rivaini, it was this big.  Would I lie about something so critical?  We're discussing knives, of course. Well, daggers, technically. I never remember the difference.  Why? What did you think we were talking about?  Rivaini, stop looking at my chest. My eyes are up here.  Do you know how much I suffer under your gaze? I am a person, not an object!   Just shitting you.  You know, Rivaini, you promised me you'd tell me how your ship wrecked.  Oh, come on.  I'll let you run your fingers through it, if you want.  You know you want to.  I know. It's a terrible burden.  Were you listening to that guy in the Hanged Man last night?  My favorite was, "Your lips are like the wings of sparrows. Red ones. With no feathers."  I'd buy the guy a drink, but I don't think he needs one.  You have got to tell me what was in that box, Rivaini.  Well, those too. But later. Right now  Fine, forget I asked. Evil woman.  Isabela... Are you talking to Bianca?  Bianca responds to my touch. She'd never give it up for you.  Stop it. You're confusing her. And me.  Give it here.  "Her breasts strained against the leather jerkin like two wild stallions corralled against their will."  "She pouncedthe smooth moves of a jungle catand locked her thighs around Donnic's waist. He"  Isabela just thought she'd celebrate your love affair with a... written dedication.  I think that's best.  The Assembly votes on it. Enough votes, andBAM!you're a living God!  I like the way you think, Rivaini, but one doesn't just ask to be made a Paragon.  After all this, the life of a pirate is going to be dull, isn't it?  The scary thing is, I don't know if you're joking!  So, Hawke and Daisy.  Really? You're not at all jealous? Because I thought you and Hawke...  Keep dreaming, Rivaini.  It's almost too adorable. Well, except for the evil blood magic thing.  I know, I have to bribe most of the gardeners in Hightown to keep it quiet.  Just curious, does any of this make sense to you?  That, yes.  Good. It's not just me, then.  That's because you spend too much time frolicking in the woods, Daisy. Dwarves don't frolic.  You have sanctioned frolicking areas?  But you do frolic?  So it's a close resemblance, then.  I'll have to give him some better stories, then.  You made it back to the Alienage in one piece, then?  Still got that ball of twine?  Bring it next time, Daisy. Just in case.  Daisy, for my sake, please quit cutting through the alleys in Lowtown alone at night.  Yes, I know. And that nothing is costing me a fortune.  So, I hear you've been visiting the viscount's garden, Daisy.  Probably because they're private and surrounded by guards.  I'll tell her you said so, Daisy.  Of course she can. What kind of a question is that?   I have family like a rat has fleas, Daisy.  Both.  I'm sure any priest who would pray for Bartrand would burst into flames.  Don't worry Daisy, the chantry keeps a lot of water on hand.  Why a mirror?  If your people were going to make a magical whatever for talking to each other, why choose a mirror?  Do elves spend a lot of time talking to their own reflections?  Twine? When did I loan you a ball of twine?  Keep it, Daisy.  You never know. You might need to tie a package up, hang a lantern, dress a roast chicken. It's multipurpose.  There's a story behind everything, Daisy.  I can't.  There was a girl, and I made a promise. Bianca is the only story I can never tell.  That was the idea, Daisy.  Does anybody else get the feeling that this is going to end badly? Just me huh?  No offense Daisy, but I could live without telling anyone that we murdered you on some mountain side, it's little hard to made that one sound good.  Who thought putting a demon in a cave on Sundermount was a good idea in the first place?  Tevinter maybe? Or in the Anderfels? Further away from Kirkwall that's for sure.  Of course it does. That's why I don't take sides.  I've got you and Aveline, Fenris and Anders. Hawke. Isabela.  I've got friends in the Circle and drinking buddies in the templars. All of them matter.  I fought my own brother, Daisy. Nobody said this was going to be happy story.  Which story, Daisy?  You want to know before it happens? You're not worried about spoiling the surprise?  You have to stick with us if you want to find out how it turns out, Daisy.  Are you for real?  All right. I thought I was getting tired of moody. I take it back.  You're making my teeth ache.  So, Choir Boy, this usurper of yours is... twenty feet tall?  But he has claws for hands, right?  He eats babies, though. And farts fire.  You can't even pretend to be interesting, can you?  While you were off playing prince, Bartrand trapped us in the Deep Roads and left us to die.  Oh, go find some beggars to sing to, will you?  Tell us about Starkhaven, Choir Boy. I'm sure we're all burning with curiosity about your far away land.  And here I was hoping...  Well, you don't have Hawke.  I've heard rumors about Starkhaven, you know.  They say you eat the dead up there. And murder strangers in the street.  Six of one, half dozen of another.  You know, Choir Boy, I wouldn't normally say this, butthe shiny white armor? It works for you.  Makes you look like a lacquered pilot whale.  Excuse me?  You want to touch Bianca's cocking ring?  So, I've known you for three years now. I give up. You beat me. What is it?  You like boys? Sheep? You slept with your sister?  What are you hiding? Nobody's this bloody clean.  After you leave the chantry you... get drunk at the Hanged Man and walk around in women's clothes?  Liar.  You're the Champion of Kirkwall. People pay attention to everything you do. And everyone.  And you want me to set the record straight? I'm honored.  If you want your private life to stay, uh, private, maybe don't sleep with half of Kirkwall.  As it happens, I haven't said a word about you and Blondie. I'd look at that, uh, uncle of yours for this particular rumor.  I haven't told anyone about you and that, uh, angsty Tevinter elf. Try looking closer to home for that intelligence leak.  What can I say? I strive for accuracy.  I'm not spreading any tales about you and the Rivaini. Although she asks me every other week to start some.  I haven't breathed a word to anyone about you and Daisy. Maybe you better have a talk with uh, uncle greasy?  The day you go to the beach is the day an armada of angry demon pirates show up.  You're larger than life, Hawke. I had to give you a few flaws just to make you approachable.  Yes, that's pretty much how I tell it. "Hawke rolled into the fray like a gigantic pudding, covered in gravy." It's more dramatic that way.  Everyone's a critic.  You really want to encounter a spit mage?  Thanks Hawke. I've been trying to forget about that all week.  Dusana Helmi is easy on the eyes. Also, she's tried to kill me five times this year.  She waited until I paid for dinner. She's in the Merchant's Guild, Hawke.  No. And I might leave town for a while just to make sure.  I'm going to need more aliases.  There's no way I'd miss watching you make these motherless nug lickers cry. If you wanna punch a few stalagmites on the way there, that's good too.  Oh, that's nice.  I was just wondering what some place sinister and foreboding would look like, and here it is.  Because I like trouble, and you think Hawke is cute. That wasn't a serious question, was it, Blondie?  This isn't so bad, Blondie. You could be losing more coin to the elf in a game of Wicked Grace.  Well, I'd probably say something like... "Then around the corner, we caught the sight of an entirely new type of darkspawn." You had to ask, Blondie.  Not my crowd. Unsubtle. Kind of fuzzy in their business plan... uh, I assume.  You keep kicking random beehives and you'll get stung.  No keeper, no bees, no honey. I like honey.  Beg your pardon?  Oh, the romance! Swords and Shields. I just started that serial. It's got ten chapters to go.  I've got an idea, but the story... the story will go where it wants to go. The characters drive it, not me.  A good story, you don't really write. It was always there. You just uncover it.  Ugh, why does it always have to be so complicated? Can't Aveline just bash through the wall?  We passed another broken pillar. You know what that means.  Yep!  Sunshine? What's wrong? Not feeling well?  Good. Keep thinking that way. It's got to be nice to think of some place as safe.  Good to be out and about Sunshine?  A Hawke attracting obsessives with a poor grasp of consequence? Colour me stunned.  Sorry, I have a reputation to maintain.  You're not looking so sunny, Sunshine.  Now, maybe the old place didn't roll out the welcome, but it's still home, right?  It ain't the buildings I'm talking about. It's good to see you.  What's the matter Junior? Three assassination attempts! You're the centre of attention! I thought you'd be happier.  It's a start. Keep at it and pretty soon, you'll get some thugs of your very own.  I'll bet the Knight Commander was thrilled one of her templars was attacked in the Gallows.  Did she make you clean up the mess?  Good to know the Paragons have steady work.  You've been away too long, Junior.  Do you know another lovable lug with more sword than sense?  So be it. We shall meet in battle when properly drunk. And safe from darkspawn, blah blah blah.  Hey now!  That's better.  You, elf, are one lucky son of a bitch.  I've never seen anyone bluff like that in my life! I was sure you had a hand full of nothing.  See? Luckiest bastard I've ever seen.  Oh, this I have to hear.  Could be. That, or I have an army of elven urchins, and they're all watching.  So, elf, what's this I've been hearing about you and the Rivaini?  Just be careful. I get the impression that Isabela's breakups turn into bloodbaths.  Dwarves don't do prisons, elf. This is a trash heap. They threw something away here and hoped it wouldn't come back.  I heard that.  We passed another broken pillar. You know what that means.  Yep!  That's true. Rivaini.  Well, it's my story.  Nothing.  I heard that.  Well, it's my story.  Kind of tricky because they're extinct. You can work a griffon attack into a town but it takes skill.  Daisy, haven't you heard? Swooping is bad.  I could do heroic charging, though. You want me to call him "Feathers"?  Daisy, everyone is fair game for my stories.  Well, you get lost a lot. You wind up in the middle of a dog racing track in Darktown. Or in the viscount's bathing room.  Daisy, I could never make that stuff up. Nobody would believe it.  Choir boy! What are you doing?  Are you trying to peek at my notes?  Did you hear the part about how it tells the future of your pants, or how it burns its expression into the faces of sinners? The pants one is my favourite. Has more pathos.  Are you kidding? The Carta's only the worst gang of thugs in Orzammar. Their main trades are lyrium smuggling, gambling and murder for hire.  So, yes. Basically, just like the Guild.  Don't know! Kill people, then ask!  So, that meeting with Edge?  I changed my mind. Let's not go.  I may have talked you up a bit. Maybe more than once.  What? You'd rather I told everyone you were a mage?  You called?  I call you Hawke. You've probably heard it once or twice.  All right, Waffles. You really want a nickname, I can hook you up.  Sure, Chuckles. You want a nickname, I'll be happy to fix you up.  If you really want a nickname, I can oblige. I'm thinking about going with Killer.  Watch it. Ghast hole.  A scholar might call it something else, but they don't know their ghasts from a hole in the ground.  That's a statement, Hawke. What's your question?  Actually, I meant to catch you before you saw Bartrand.  Maybe I wasn't obvious about this already, but finding out things I'm not supposed to know is pretty much what I do.  I told you not to play that last hand.  Gallard won't collect on that. He's got enough ears of his own.  Look on the bright side, losing your ear will add to your tortured look. Some women really like that.  Fop. Um... Party.  Seriously, Blondie? No one ever invites you anywhere?  Argh! Anders is talking about templars again! Does that count as one word?  Good point.  Argh! Anders is talking about templars again! Does that count as one word?  Blondie, I hate to say this, but I'm pretty sure we've been here before.  I wish I hadn't given that ball of twine to Daisy.  Should have come to the Hanged Man last week. You missed Brennan drunk off her ass, reciting love poems to Corff.  Four hours she spent clinging to the bar, shouting sonnets at the poor man.  Keep an eye on her. I think she's in possession of a few concealed dirty limericks, too.  Can you blame them? Shut up in their dreary castles, surrounded by other stuffy nobles who only talk about money and politics...  How could they not long for the cold days and hot nights of a fiery, passionate guardswoman?  I'm so used to Hawke leading the way, I think my sense of direction has withered.   What's the matter, Sunshine? Thought you'd be enjoying the whole "fancy Orlesian estate" thing more.  That it's the uniform of the Circle and you could make a burlap sack look good?  You would kill these people if you wore the height of fashion.  Still do. I can tell.  Since when does "want" give two squirts about "likely?" Enjoy it.  Ah, all this grandeur has me eloquented out.  You've certainly quickened your stride in the last few years.   There's my Sunshine. Let's go!  You've certainly quickened your stride in the last few years.  And towards, I hope. Speaking of which, to the rescue!  It's not that hard, Junior. He's my brother.  Forget family ties  Still... actually, you're doing all right.  'Tis true, 'tis true.  Absolutely.  Just like old times.   Fair comment, Junior. All right, let's get this done.  Fifth, I think.  Play Diamondback and wait for Hawke to find us?  What? Why didn't you tell me?  I don't want to replace her, but... she could use a friend. Someone to sit on the mantle with.  Don't listen to him, Bianca. You deserve happiness, just like anyone else.  How did you learn to speak Qunari?  That's the part I don't get. I've almost never heard Qunari talking to each other. They just stand around and glower.  Our little Hawke is growing up, Rivaini.  Next thing you know, she'll be conning guards and cutting purses without us. Where does the time go?  Soon, he'll be sharking card games and swindling merchants all on his own! Brings a tear to my eye!  We are the very souls of moderation, Hawke. You know that.  Didn't think you'd show interest in any dance that doesn't end with someone's guts on the floor.  Bianca isn't interested in any dance that doesn't end with someone's guts on the floor.  Or we've been through the same twenty feet of this place about a dozen times. It's hard to tell, Rivaini.  You're still upset that you couldn't swipe a drink from the party, aren't you?  We're not that kind of merchant, Daisy.  House Tethas invests in... you're not going to understand a word of this financial stuff, are you?  Right. In that case, we have lots of shops. But they're invisible. Only dwarves and accountants can see them.  Right now? I don't think we have time, Daisy.  Fine. "When the cards turned, he lost."  If Starkhaven was a tenth as bad, I see why you took to the Chantry.  In Starkhaven, do they bludgeon you to death for forgetting the name of a minor clerk's third daughter?  Choir Boy, suddenly your life makes much more sense to me.  I was still in diapers when my father died. I'm sure he was getting around to it.  Your family's dead and you're still celibate, right?  Why don't you take care of that little quirk before you come bothering me.  Or has Hawke managed to talk you out of that?  Pity.  Was this before or after you got Andraste's face soldered to your pelvis?  That depends entirely on the audience, Choir Boy.   I take it we run around randomly shouting, "Here, wyvern wyvern wyvern!"  You want to just stand back and watch? Should be good for a few laughs."  Get out! Nobody's heard of Clan Tethras.  Huh. Must have been Dusan. He was a smith. Tried to become Paragon, ended up poisoning himself.  He was terrible at intrigue. Forgot which goblet he'd put the poison in. Wasn't finished gloating to his enemy when he keeled over.  I think the family always had a sense for terrible drama.  All right, Shivs, I'll admit it  Yes, "Shivs." So, how does stealing valuables from a pompous Orlesian noble fit in with your Qun?  Even the Tome of Koslun? That was worth starting a war over.  Are you for real?  All right. I thought I was getting tired of moody. I take it back.  You're making my teeth ache.  So, Choir Boy, this usurper of yours is... twenty feet tall?  But he has claws for hands, right?  He eats babies, though. And farts fire.  You can't even pretend to be interesting, can you?  While you were off playing prince, Bartrand trapped us in the Deep Roads and left us to die.  Oh, go find some beggars to sing to, will you?  Tell us about Starkhaven, Choir Boy. I'm sure we're all burning with curiosity about your far away land.  And here I was hoping...  Well, you don't have Hawke.  I've heard rumors about Starkhaven, you know.  They say you eat the dead up there. And murder strangers in the street.  Six of one, half dozen of another.  You know, Choir Boy, I wouldn't normally say this, butthe shiny white armor? It works for you.  Makes you look like a lacquered pilot whale.  Excuse me?  You want to touch Bianca's cocking ring?  So, I've known you for three years now. I give up. You beat me. What is it?  You like boys? Sheep? You slept with your sister?  What are you hiding? Nobody's this bloody clean.  After you leave the chantry you... get drunk at the Hanged Man and walk around in women's clothes?  Liar.  Choirboy is butter.  Choir Boy, what are you doing?  Are you trying to peek at my notes?  Did you hear about the one about how it foretells the future of your pants, or how it burns its expression into the faces of the sinners?  The pants one is my favorite. Has more pathos.  How sheltered are you?  You can say that again.  I tried to warn you, Blondie.  I think he jabs himself with those spikes, personally.  I'll tell you when you're older, Daisy.  Yes.  Face it. You set yourself up for that one.  I don't think I need to know this about either of you.  Ah, that old chestnut.  Oh ho! Nicely done.  Actually they used to hang men there. By their feet. Till they starved to death.  Is there anyone in Ferelden you haven't slept with, Rivaini?  It is if he's a betting man.  Seconded.
